# Yahoo Finance

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/tsmc-oracle-volkswagen-inditex-persimmon-stocks-to-watch-140751589.html

Earnings season is winding down but there are still a number of major companies due to report in the coming week.

Chip stocks remain firmly in the market spotlight, with TSMC (2330.TW, TSM) due to release its February sales figures on Monday.

Larry Ellison's cloud software company Oracle (ORCL) will also be reporting on Monday, with investors keeping an eye out for commentary on its role in the US Stargate AI infrastructure project.

In the autos sector, Volkswagen (VOW3.DE) is due to release full-year results, on the back of a rollercoaster week of trade tariff news for carmakers.

Meanwhile, investors will be hoping that end of the year trading gave a boost to Zara-owner Inditex (ITX.MC), after having disappointed against estimates in the third quarter.

In the UK, markets will be focused on the year-ahead outlook from housebuilder Persimmon (PSN.L) when it reports on Tuesday.

Here's more on what to look out for:

Earlier in the week, TSMC (2330.TW, TSM) revealed that it would invest $100bn (£77bn) in the US, expanding on its existing $65bn investment in operations in the country.

US president Donald Trump made the announcement in a news conference at the White House on Monday alongside TSMC (2330.TW, TSM) CEO CC Wei, unveiling what is said to be the largest single foreign direct investment in US history.

In a statement, TSMC (2330.TW, TSM) said that the expansion of its investment in the US includes plans for three new fabrication plants, two advanced packaging facilities and a major research and development team centre.

Stocks: Create your watchlist and portfolio

The chipmaker said this was expected to support 40,000 construction jobs over the next four years and create tens of thousands of jobs in chip manufacturing and research and development.

Wei said: "AI is reshaping our daily lives and semiconductor technology is the foundation for new capabilities and applications."

Despite this announcement, TSMC (2330.TW, TSM) shares are down more than 3% over the past five days, as Trump's trade tariff plans have created nervousness in the chip sector.

TSMC's (2330.TW, TSM) revenue in January grew 36% to 293.3 billion Taiwan dollars (£6.92bn), though the chipmaker said it had been impacted by severe earthquakes in Taiwan, estimating related losses of around 5.3 billion Taiwan dollars.

As a result of the earthquake damage, TSMC said it now expected its revenue for the first quarter to be closer to the lower end of the guidance range of $25bn and US$25.8bn.

Oracle Corporation (ORCL) will announce its third-quarter fiscal year 2025 earnings on Monday 10 March, after market close.

The last time the company announced earnings in September, its stock surged and has since maintained support around the $155 (£120) level. In its previous quarter, Oracle (ORCL) reported a 9% year-over-year increase in total revenue, reaching $14.1bn (£10.91bn). This growth was driven by a 24% rise in cloud revenue, which totaled $5.9bn (£4.47bn).

Read more: EU economy grew by estimated 0.4% in fourth quarter

Analysts anticipate further growth in the upcoming release, with expectations of modest profit gains. According to Investor.com, Barclays (BARC.L) analyst Raimo Lenschow highlighted that strong guidance and insights into the Stargate AI project could drive positive stock movement following Oracle's (ORCL) third-quarter earnings report.

Stargate AI is Oracle's (ORCL) collaboration with OpenAI and NVIDIA (NVDA) to build and operate advanced computing systems, with initial construction underway in Texas.

Oracle Corporation (ORCL) provides a range of products and services for corporate IT environments, including cloud and on-premise applications, infrastructure technologies, and hardware solutions.

Shares in Volkswagen (VOW3.DE) rose this week after Trump said he would temporarily spare carmakers from 25% tariffs on Mexico and Canada.

The one-month pause on tariffs was granted to carmakers whose vehicles are made in North America that comply with the continent's free trade agreement.

Reuters reported on Thursday that Volkswagen (VOW3.DE) said its vehicles made in North America would likely avoid being subject to the tariffs. A spokesperson for VW (VOW3.DE) reportedly said that said its North American vehicles do comply with the terms of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA).

Read more: Stocks that are trending today

An exemption would be welcome news for Volkswagen (VOW3.DE), given imports from its Mexican plant are key to its VW passenger car brand's US sales, according to the Reuters report. In addition, the battery cell plant that the carmaker is building in Canada was set to deliver batteries to the US.

A spokesperson had not responded to Yahoo Finance UK's request for comment at the time of writing.

These developments come ahead of Volkswagen (VOW3.DE) reporting its full-year results on Tuesday.

Volkswagen (VOW3.DE) shares dropped following the release of its nine-month results, in which the carmaker reported a nearly 64% fall in earnings after tax in the third quarter to €1.58bn (£1.32bn).

Arno Antlitz, said that the results reflected a "challenging market environment and underline the importance of delivering on the performance programs we have launched across the group."

"Volkswagen Brand reported an operating margin of only two percent after nine months," he said. "This highlights the urgent need for significant cost reductions and efficiency gains."

For the year, Volkswagen (VOW3.DE) said it expected to deliver an operating profit of around €18bn.

Shares in Zara-owner Inditex (ITX.MC) fell in December after the Spanish clothing company missed estimates on sales and profit in the third quarter.

Inditex posted third quarter sales of €9.36bn, which was below analyst expectations of €9.51bn. Nine-month net profit of €4.44bn, also missed estimates of €4.52bn.

However, trading for the Christmas period got off to a promising start, as Inditex (ITX.MC) said its autumn/winter collections remained well-received by customers, reporting that sales had increased by 9% between the start of November and December compared with the same period in the previous year.

While Inditex didn't offer specific guidance on sales and profits for the full-year, the company did say it expected capital expenditure to come in at around €1.8bn.

Read more: Bitcoin price rises ahead of Trump crypto summit

Inditex said it was implementing a logistics expansion plan in 2024 and 2025, allocating €900m a year to increase its capacity in this area.

In a note on 3 March, Deutsche Bank analysts reiterated a "hold" rating on the stock.

"Inditex has been a clear outperformer in clothing retail, delivering an outstanding sales and profit performance since COVID," they said, pointing out that the share price is up over 150% since mid-2022.

"This has created the risk of heightened investor expectations and how the shares react when the sales growth normalises," they added.

The analysts said that at the time of the third quarter results they had some "questions on the cost growth that were not well answered by the company and we hope for more detail next week at the FY results."

"The potential risks of US tariffs are also weighing on Inditex sentiment given the Spanish focussed export business," they said. "On balance we see risks as weighed to the downside for consensus estimates and the share price looking into the [full year] results on 12 March."

Housebuilder Persimmon (PSN.L) has already given investors a glimpse into what to expect from its full-year results, having released a trading update in January.

Persimmon (PSN.L) said completions were up 7% year-on-year, at 10,664 homes, which was ahead of market expectations.

The housebuilder said it expected full-year underlying profit before tax for 2024 to around the upper end of market expectations, with guidance of £349m ($451m) to £390m.

In the outlook it did provide for 2025, Persimmon (PSN.L) said it had started the year with an improved forward order book and strong land bank.

Read more: The highly-rated defence stocks investors are buying up

At the same time, the housebuilder said it was "mindful of evolving macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties, including the timing of future interest rate changes, and the effect that they may have on our market and consumer confidence in the short-term."

Investors will be keeping an eye out for any more specific comments on its outlook for the year, when it releases the final full year results on Tuesday.

Aarin Chiekrie, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown (HL.L), said that markets are "expecting further growth in pre-tax profits to around £430m."

"Build cost inflation is on the rise again, but thanks to Persimmon’s (PSN.L) in-house materials businesses, this impact should be limited to low single digits," he said. "And with Persimmon’s (PSN.L) houses typically being priced more than 20% below the national average, markets expect to see demand hold up relatively well even if the current affordability pressures persist."

Monday 10 March

Clarkson (CKN.L)

HgCapital Trust (HGT.L)

BioNTech (BNTX)

Franco-Nevada (FNV)

Tuesday 11 March

Domino's Pizza (DPZ)

Genuit Group (GEN.L)

Kier Group (KIE.L)

Persimmon (PSN.L)

Rotork (ROR.L)

Spirax Group (SPX.L)

Supermarket Income REIT (SUPR.L)

TP ICAP Group (TCAP.L)

STV (STVG.L)

Costain (COST.L)

Synthomer (SYNT.L)

Asustek (2357.TW)

Henkel (HEN3.DE)

Ferguson (FERG)

Dick’s Sporting Goods (DKS)

Ciena (CIEN)

Nio (NIO)

Kohl’s (KSS)

Wednesday 12 March

4imprint Group (FOUR.L)

Balfour Beatty (BBY.L)

Ferrexpo (FXPO.L)

Hill & Smith (HILS.L)

Hochschild Mining (HOC.L)

Legal & General (LGEN.L)

Forterra (FORT.L)

PDD (PDD)

Cathay Pacific Airways (0293.HK)

Samsonite (1910.HK)

Porsche (PAH3.DE)

Rheinmetall (RHM.DE)

Puma (PUM.DE)

Adobe (ADBE)

Lennar (LEN)

Thursday 13 March

Alfa Financial Software Holdings (ALFA.L)

Bridgepoint (BPT.L)

C&C Group (CCR.L)

Deliveroo (ROO.L)

Empiric Student Property (ESP.L)

Halma (HLMA.L)

Helios Towers (HTWS.L)

OSB Group (OSB.L)

Savills (SVS.L)

Trainline (TRN.L)

Volution Group (FAN.L)

Restore (RST.L)

DFS Furniture (DFS.L)

ENEL (ENEL.MI)

Generali (G.MI)

Hannover Re (HNR1.DE)

Swatch (UHR.SW)

Brunello Cucinelli (BC.MI)

DocuSign (DOCU)

Jabil (JBL)

Friday 14 March

Allianz (ALVD.XC)

Berkeley Group (BKG.L)

Bodycote (BOY.L)

Vanquis Banking (VANQ.L)

AIA (1299.HK)

Hon Hai Precision 2317 (2317.TW)

BMW (BMW.DE)

Daimler Truck (DTG.DE)

You can read Yahoo Finance's full calendar here.

Read more:

European Central Bank cuts interest rates to 2.5%

The lenders offering sub-4% fixed mortgage rates

Bitcoin price rises ahead of Trump crypto summit

Download the Yahoo Finance app, available for Apple and Android.