# Nasdaq, Dow, S&P 500 see red coming off Fed's rate decision

Article ID: 134224087
Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/video/nasdaq-dow-p-500-see-134224087.html
Timestamp: 1742478144 (2025-03-20T13:42:24)

SUMMARY: US stocks (^DJI, ^IXIC, ^GSPC) fall Thursday morning despite rallying on the Federal Reserve's interest rate hold and closing Wednesday's session higher. The Morning Brief's Madison Mills and Yahoo Finance markets and data editor Jared Blikre break down the latest market and sector action. To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action, check out more Morning Brief here.

US stocks (^DJI, ^IXIC, ^GSPC) fall Thursday morning despite rallying on the Federal Reserve's interest rate hold and closing Wednesday's session higher.

The Morning Brief's Madison Mills and Yahoo Finance markets and data editor Jared Blikre break down the latest market and sector action.

To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action, check out more Morning Brief here.

Let's take a look at the market action. If you take a look at futures coming off their highs from earlier this morning, we did see a little bit of a recovery in the market off the back of that Fed meeting, the Fed keeping rates steady, but slowing their growth expectations, also looking at an increase in unemployment. The market interestingly rallying off the back of that meeting, maybe it was about what Fed share pal didn't say, he never used the word hike, maybe taking a hike off the table was enough to lead to a little bit of a rally. But as you can see today, that rally coming off of its skis here a bit, you've got your tech heavy names responsible for the majority of the losses here, your S&P 500 is down about 7/10 of a percent, and you continue to see a lot of pressure on those tech names. I'm just going to flip the board over to the Nasdaq, so we can take a look at all of your Mac 7 names in the red today, a very different picture than that pesto pizza I was able to show you guys yesterday. You've got Apple down about 9/10 of a percent, Nvidia. This is going to be the key driver of the group potentially today down about 2/10 of a percent. If we get some positive headlines out of their quantum day at GTC today, is that going to be enough to bring the rest of the ships with it? Of course, that is the trend that we typically see with Nvidia, but that has been under pressure as of late with the rest of those tech names. And then you've got your big laggard for the Mac 7 year to date in Tesla here, which is down 6/10 of a percent in the trade today. I'm going to head over to Jared Blickry for a broader look at what's moving in the markets. Hey Jared.

Thank you, Maddie. I'm going to go back to the indices where we have small caps leading down today. And we have been in the midst of this fledgling rally since last Friday, trying to get off the ground, but each time we get a win, we got two wins back to back Friday Monday. But we've been getting these big loss days intervening. And here we can see, this is a four day look. Let me put the five day and you can see S&P 500 still hasn't really eclipsed those highs that we saw on Monday. The good news is, we've been talking about seasonality a lot, especially over the last few years, March seasonality finally turns bullish. And a few different models say a few different things, but March seasonality is turning bullish today. And so that kind of takes some pressure off of stocks. I'm going to be doing a deep dive on that in about 30 minutes. And let's get to the bond market, because the 10 year T note yield is now fallen to the lowest level in quite some time, a few weeks there. Let me put that's a five day chart, I'm going to put a year to date on. So you can see the price action and there right by these lows that we've seen. So what's interesting is the 10 year T note yield is falling and it's not by a little, it's by a medium amount, seven basis points. Meanwhile, the US dollar index is rallying to the highest in a couple of weeks. And so I think that dynamic is interesting and worth monitoring, not sure what it means or what it's saying so far, but keep my eye on that. And here we have look, utilities flipped into the green there, but tech is leading the way down. So is Industrials, energy materials. So kind of a mix of cyclical mainly cyclicals leading the way down today. I want to get over to the NASDAQ 100. And specifically, I was looking at, I saw this bespoke ex post and it was interesting because I didn't realize how many of these stocks are in, it's not appropriate to say a bear market, but a lot of these stocks down 20% or more. I'm going to put a view here that shows how much each of these stocks are off from their 52 week high and you can see Apple's down 17 and a half percent, Nvidia's down 22, alphabet down 21, meta 20, Tesla 51 here, and Amazon almost at that 20% threshold too. By definition, we're not going to see any green on the screen because this is down from the 52 week high, the highest point over the last year, but I thought that was kind of instructive, especially as we see Apple meta and Tesla down double digits in March. I want to switch over to Chinese stocks which have been a real bright spot this year and this is what's happening today. This is actual return losses and Alibaba down 3 and a half percent, trip.com almost four, Xpung down 5%. So we're seeing a lot of weakness in the China trade today. And then we can go to futures land where we see copper. Copper is flirting with all time highs, HG equals F down about 65 basis points right now, but it was poking into some really heady territory earlier on. I've been showing this max chart, which goes back over 20 years to the early 2000s and you can't see it on an intraday basis. We do have a few highs in here to deal with that might be a little higher, but we're basically at record highs in copper and that has big implications for the industrial complex all around the world. I'm going to leave us with Bitcoin, crypto caught a bid yesterday after chair Powell took the lectern and let's get a five day view of crypto because it was camping out near the low 80,000s, wasn't doing much. This is a year to date look, but finally got a little bit of a lift off here. So the highest point in a couple of weeks and once again, we got we did get that lift off of the 200 day moving average, key technical level, but we just haven't seen much traction in either direction since then. Wait for that next catalyst, Brad.

Jared, thanks so much. We are waiting for that next catalyst indeed. Appreciate it.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
