# Starmer ‘assessing all options’ as Trump delivers tariff blow

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/starmer-assessing-options-trump-delivers-171945231.html
Timestamp: 1742231985 (2025-03-17T17:19:45)

SUMMARY: Sir Keir Starmer is “assessing all options” after Donald Trump said there would be no exemptions to his metal tariffs, Downing Street has said. The Prime Minister is “keeping all options on the table” after the US president said he had “no intention” to allow exemptions to his 25pc levies on steel and aluminium, which came into force last week. Mr Trump’s comments complicate Britain’s growth outlook as Chancellor Rachel Reeves prepares to deliver her Spring Statement where she is expected to ann...

Sir Keir Starmer is “assessing all options” after Donald Trump said there would be no exemptions to his metal tariffs, Downing Street has said.

The Prime Minister is “keeping all options on the table” after the US president said he had “no intention” to allow exemptions to his 25pc levies on steel and aluminium, which came into force last week.

Mr Trump’s comments complicate Britain’s growth outlook as Chancellor Rachel Reeves prepares to deliver her Spring Statement where she is expected to announce cuts to public services in response to weakness in the UK economy.

The OECD today downgraded Britain’s growth outlook for the next two years over concerns about the impact of the US president’s global trade war.

Unlike the EU, Britain refrained from imposing retaliatory tariffs when the US import taxes came into effect last Wednesday.

US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick had praised Britain for holding back while Mr Trump had indicated after meeting Sir Keir Starmer at the White House last month that the UK and US could “very soon” reach a “great” and “real” trade deal.

Asked in a lobby briefing whether retaliatory tariffs are on the table, the Prime Minister’s official spokesman said: “We’re engaged in pragmatic discussions with the US and securing a wider economic deal.

“When it comes to global tariffs, we’re assessing all options. As the Prime Minister said last week, we’re keeping all options on the table, but we’re going to take a pragmatic approach to this, and we’ll be continuing to have these discussions.

“As many in industry said last week, they don’t want to see a trade war where both sides escalate the situation, and standing up for industry means finding a solution.”

Read the latest updates below.

Thanks for joining us.

That’s all for today here but you can read our latest business and economics stories here.

Audi has said that it will cut 7,500 jobs by 2029 in Germany as the country’s car industry battles slowing demand for electric vehicles and rising Chinese competition.

“The economic conditions are becoming increasingly tougher, competitive pressure and political uncertainties are presenting the company with immense challenges,” Audi said.

The UK’s blue-chip FTSE 100 index edged up on Monday, helped by energy and metal miners, while investors geared up for a slew of central bank decisions this week, including from the Bank of England.

The FTSE 100 rose 0.6pc, while the mid-cap FTSE 250 rose 0.2pc.

The S&P and Dow Jones are up this afternoon but the tech-heavy Nasdaq has fallen as investors assess new figures for the American economy.

The S&P 500 is 0.2pc higher, coming off its fourth losing week in a row. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 144 0.5pc, and the Nasdaq is 0.3pc lower.

The relatively calm trading today may be short-lived, with a decision by the Federal Reserve on interest rates coming later in the week and worries continuing about Donald Trump’s trade war.

Stocks have been tumbling recently on worries that Mr Trump’s announcements on tariffs and other policies are creating so much uncertainty that they will push US households and businesses to freeze their spending. Surveys have shown sharp drops in confidence, and some companies are already warning about changes in behaviour from their customers.

A report out this afternoon said US retailers broadly saw weaker revenue last month than economists expected, but it may not have been quite as bad as it seemed on the surface.

Much of the shortfall in growth versus expectations was due to weaker-than-forecast sales of car and lower fuel costs. Outside of them, the performance was closer to expectations.

“In our view, this morning’s February retail sales report offers evidence of a limited, modest economic slowdown, rather than signalling a gathering recession,” said Jennifer Timmerman, analyst at Wells Fargo Investment Institute.

Concerns that Donald Trump;’s tariffs could divert a wave of aluminium to Europe have prompted the European Commission to consider curbs on imports, a draft EU plan shows.

The EU is also considering duties on its own exports of scrap metals to shore up the industry, according to the plan.

The EU already has safeguards in place for steel and it launched a probe for alloys in December. However, the steel and aluminium industries have been calling for more action to protect them from a global glut, notably coming from China, which is set to worsen for Europe as metal is diverted away from the United States.

“EU producers lost substantial market share over the last decade and, in addition, around 50pc of primary production capacity remains curtailed since 2021,” the draft document said.

“The recently announced US tariffs on aluminium are likely to worsen the situation further with a significant threat of trade diversion from multiple destinations.”

Eurozone government bond yields dropped on Monday, one day ahead of a German parliament vote on the country’s spending plans and at the start of a week packed with central bank policy meetings.

Plans by Chancellor-in-waiting Friedrich Merz to unleash a massive state borrowing programme were hit by last-minute legal challenges from the far-Right Alternative for Germany at the country’s constitutional court.

The spending plan will be a “positive” for Germany’s prized triple-A sovereign credit rating, S&P Global said earlier this month.

“Our biggest concern with Germany’s creditworthiness is the stagnating economy, so anything to boost the domestic economy is a credit positive,” S&P analyst Frank Gill said.

He added that Germany’s low debt levels meant it had “significant” room for additional spending, saying: “We think the triple-A rating is safe.”

Germany’s 10-year government bond yields were down at 2.8pc. They hit 2.938pc last week, the highest since October 2023, as expectations for more bonds being issued drove yields higher.

The US Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan will announce rate decisions on Wednesday, followed on Thursday by the Bank of England, Sweden’s Riksbank and the Swiss National Bank.

Bank of America argued that the Fed will most likely hold rates, emphasising “patience over panic”.

Rachel Reeves has promised to cut government borrowing amid growing dissent within the Labour Party over planned cuts to welfare and other spending.

She told Bloomberg TV: “When we’re spending £100bn a year on servicing government debt, I don’t think anyone could seriously argue that we don’t need to get a grip of government borrowing and government debt.

It is important that there is headroom against the shocks we face.”

The union that represents Tesco workers has hailed a “real achievement” in its pay negotiations after the supermarket giant agreed to increase pay by 5.2pc.

The above-inflation rise will come in two instalments - this month and in August - and comes after Tesco warned that Rachel Reeves’s Budget tax raid could mean higher prices.

Ken Murphy, Tesco’s chief executive, said in January that the Budget “no doubt makes the cost of doing business higher” and said it was “another obstacle” after battling inflation and Covid.

Daniel Adams, of the Usdaw union, said today: “It is a real achievement that Usdaw reps have been able to secure an above-inflation pay deal that builds on the negotiations of the last few years. Not only does it ensure a meaningful gap between the Tesco rates of pay and the National Living Wage in April, but it also means that in August, the basic rate of pay in Tesco will exceed the Real Living Wage rate outside of London and meet it within the M25”

Tesco shares are down 4.5pc amid worries that a revitalised Asda will launch a price war.

Rachel Reeves said on Monday she was pleased with moves to boost economic growth taken by two of Britain’s financial regulators and she races to kick-start economic growth.

Ms Reeves said that the Financial Conduct Authority, which oversees the City of London, and the Prudential Regulation Authority, part of the Bank of England, were responding to her call on watchdogs to make it easier to do business.

“I’ve been pleased by some of the progress at both the FCA and the PRA in supporting growth,” Ms Reeves said, having earlier today met with several regulators to push for more simplified red tape.

The Government said last week it would abolish the Payment Systems Regulator, which oversees some financial services issues and was the subject of complaints from businesses who must also follow PRA and FCA rules.

Donald Trump has rescinded an executive order issued by his Democratic predecessor, Joe Biden, which required businesses that contract with the federal government to pay workers a minimum wage of $17.75 (£13.67) an hour.

Mr Biden had initially raised the minimum wage to $15 an hour in 2021 with automatic updates, and it rose to $17.75 in January.

Federal contractors, including many of the country’s largest companies, employ roughly 20pc of the US workforce.

For contracts entered into before Biden’s order took effect on January 30, 2022, contractors will be required to pay workers $13.30 an hour under an Obama-era executive order. Other contractors will only be required to pay the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour or applicable state minimum wages of up to $17.50 an hour.

China has agreed to work with Britain on green and low-carbon developments after a meeting between Ed Miliband and senior officials in Beijing.

The world’s second largest economy is willing to work with Britain to deepen cooperation in financial services, trade and investment, China’s vice premier Ding Xuexiang told the Energy Secretary during a visit.

Developing a stable relationship between the two countries is conducive to addressing global challenges, Mr Ding said, according to a readout of his meeting with Mr Miliband in Beijing released by China’s foreign ministry.

It comes as Donald Trump’s tariff policies upend the global order on trade.

With that, I’ll thank you for following today’s updates so far and leave you in the capable hands of Alex Singleton.

Wall Street was divided in early trading amid weaker-than-expected retail sales figures and Donald Trump’s tariff war.

The S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average were up 0.2pc and 0.4pc, respectively while the tech-heavy Nasdaq sank 0.4pc in early trading.

It comes despite rises across European markets, with the FTSE 100 up 0.5pc, the Cac 40 in Paris up 0.4pc and the Dax in Frankfurt higher by 0.5pc.

Although US retail sales came in less than expected, the data was at least partially attributable to cheaper petrol prices.

Adam Sarhan, chief executive at 50 Park Investments, said: “Investors are looking for any type of positive bullish catalyst in this environment when uncertainty is so elevated.

“Any news or data that is not the-end-of-the-world kind of data is being received well.”

The European Commission plans to investigate possible safeguards for its aluminium industry to counter the impact of Donald Trump’s tariffs.

The European Union’s executive body proposes export duties on European scrap metals exports to shore up its shrinking industry, a draft of the steel action plan showed.

The EU already has safeguards, which include import limits, in place for steel and it launched a probe for alloys in December.

“EU producers lost substantial market share over the last decade and, in addition, around 50pc of primary production capacity remains curtailed since 2021,” the draft document said, according to Reuters.

“The recently announced US tariffs on aluminium are likely to worsen the situation further with a significant threat of trade diversion from multiple destinations.”

The Commission will also make a new proposal for a trade measure for steel “based on tariff rate quotas” to replace the existing ones expiring on July 1, 2026.

The steel and metals action plan is due to be announced on Wednesday and may still be amended before then.

The Magnificent Seven group of stocks which had powered Wall Street to record highs in recent years were all in the red in early trading in the US.

Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Meta, Microsoft Nvidia, Tesla were all down as Donald Trump said he would impose reciprocal tariffs on April 2, raising concerns about a US recession.

Ladenburg Thalmann Asset Management’s chief executive Phil Blancato said: “It’s just too early to tell. There are still too many unknowns and it’s hard to make that rationale.

“We have an expensive stock market and we’re probably looking at a difficult year to start.”

US stocks shrugged off Donald Trump’s global trade war ahead of the next interest rate decision by the Federal Reserve.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.5pc to 41,682.92 in early trading, while the benchmark S&P 500 gained 0.5pc to 5,664.66 as it sought to end a four-week losing streak.

The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite lifted 0.3pc to 17,08.87 after a bruising period when stocks tumbled after the US president upended global trade with his tariff announcements.

The Bank of England will cut interest rates faster than markets expect, according to a top economist as trade war uncertainty leaves traders reluctant to price in big moves.

ING developed markets economist James Smith said policymakers will leave interest rates on hold at 4.5pc on Thursday before resuming a “gradual” pace of cuts once a quarter in May, August and November.

He said markets “are still a tad reluctant to bake in those three remaining rate cuts in 2025 fully”, with trades indicating just over two cuts by December.

Mr Smith said: “We don’t rule out a faster pace though that would require more obvious and abrupt signs of weakening in the jobs market.

“We doubt the government’s Spring Statement on 26 March, where some spending cuts are widely expected, will dramatically change the story for the Bank.”

He added: “Despite the decent repricing lower in US rates over recent weeks, investors don’t expect rates to go any lower in 2026 or beyond.

“Markets are pricing a floor for Bank Rate of 3.9pc, compared to our own forecast of 3.25pc, which we expect to be reached by the summer of 2026.”

US retail sales were weaker than expected last month, government data showed amid growing worries of a recession.

Retail sales crept up by 0.2pc in February from January to $722.7 billion, according to the US Commerce Department.

The figure was an improvement from January’s 1.2pc decline in sales, although analysts had forecast a larger uptick of 0.7pc.

Consumers are a key driver of the world’s biggest economy, and spending has been helped by a resilient job market and wage growth.

But households have since drawn down on savings accumulated during the Covid-19 pandemic.

President Donald Trump’s economic policies - which so far include sweeping tariff hikes and sharp cuts to the federal government - have also bogged down consumer confidence in recent times.

The dollar dropped near a five-month low against the pound after Donald Trump’s top financial official warned the US is at risk of recession.

US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said there could be “no guarantees” that the world’s largest economy would avoid a recession.

It helped send the pound up 0.3pc against the dollar to $1.297, close to its highest level since mid-November.

Mr Bessent added that he was not worried by plummeting stock markets on Wall Street, telling NBC that “corrections are healthy”.

Sir Keir Starmer is “assessing all options” after Donald Trump said there would be no exemptions to tariffs, Downing Street has said.

Asked in a lobby briefing whether retaliatory tariffs are on the table, the Prime Minister’s official spokesman said: “We’re engaged in pragmatic discussions with the US and securing a wider economic deal.

“When it comes to global tariffs, we’re assessing all options. As the Prime Minister said last week, we’re keeping all options on the table, but we’re going to take a pragmatic approach to this, and we’ll be continuing to have these discussions.

“As many in industry said last week, they don’t want to see a trade war where both sides escalate the situation, and standing up for industry means finding a solution.”

Emmanuel Macron has urged Donald Trump to end his tariff policies during a meeting with new Canadian prime minister Mark Carney.

The French President said trade that adhered to international rules on commerce was a more effective tool for prosperity than tariffs.

Mr Macron said: “I think we both believe that fair trade that respects international rules is good for everyone’s prosperity, and is certainly more effective than tariffs.”

He was speaking alongside Mr Carney, who is making his first trip overseas since becoming prime minister. He visits London after Paris later today.

The FTSE 100 has edged higher despite Donald Trump banging the drum around tariffs over the weekend.

Britain’s blue-chip stock index added 0.2pc despite the US president saying there would be no exemptions to his metal tariffs.

Heavyweights Shell, Rio Tinto and IAG ticked up 1.3pc, 1.6pc and 2.4pc respectively.

A widely-held expectation that both the US Federal Reserve and Bank of England would keep rates on hold has also helped calm traders’ nerves.

Insurance and pensions fund company Phoenix rose highest at up to 7.8pc, the most since May, after posting operating profits ahead of expectations.

Shares in UK grocers continued to weigh the index down amid concern over growing competition after rival Asda’s announcement of price cuts on Friday.

Tesco fell as much as 4.3pc, taking its two-day topple to 13pc - its most since Feb 2021 - while Sainsbury’s slipped its furthest since March 2020 and M&S was also down.

Clive Black of Shore Capital said the market had displayed nervousness as “a knee jerk, which is understandable”, after Asda vowed its deepest price cuts for 25 years in an attempt to resurrect its languishing market share.

Frederick Wild of Jefferies said it was unclear whether Asda has the ability to commit to the scale it outlined on Friday if volume growth does not improve.

AstraZeneca shares also slipped after the announcement that it was purchasing Belgian biotech EsoBiotec for as much as $1bn, as the drugmaker targets the next generation of cancer treatments.

The US tech giant founded by one of Donald Trump’s biggest billionaire backers has vowed to spend $5bn (£3.9bn) in Britain.

Larry Ellison’s Oracle said it would make the investment over the next five years, expanding its data centre infrastructure and helping more businesses adopt artificial intelligence (AI).

Mr Ellison, the world’s fifth-richest man with a $169bn fortune, founded the company in 1977 and serves as its executive chairman and chief technology officer.

Wall Street stock indexes were on track to open lower after the US Treasury Secretary said there are “no guarantees” that America will escape a recession.

Scott Bessent’s comments added to unease about an economic slowdown as Donald Trump reaffirmed his aim to impose reciprocal tariffs from April 2.

Meanwhile the Federal Reserve will announce its next interest rate decision on Wednesday, with traders firmly anticipating that the US central bank will maintain current interest rates.

Last week, both the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq marked their fourth consecutive weekly declines, with the Dow also experiencing a weekly drop.

The blue-chip Dow is teetering on the brink of a correction, hovering about 2pc away and down roughly 8pc from its all-time high.

The S&P 500 entered correction territory last week, following Nasdaq on March 6.

In premarket trading, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 0.2pc, the S&P 500 was 0.1pc lower and the Nasdaq 100 fell 0.1pc.

Traders have scaled back bets on interest rate cuts by the Bank of England after the OECD downgraded UK growth prospects for the next two years.

Money markets still indicate that policymakers will cut borrowing costs twice this year, first by August and then by November, but derivatives trades indicated investors are becoming less confidence.

The OECD lowered its forecast for UK growth to 1.4pc this year and 1.2pc in 2026, down from 1.7pc and 1.3pc, in a blow for the Chancellor ahead of next week’s Spring Statement.

The Bank of England holds its next meeting on interest rates on Thursday.

Kathleen Brooks, research director at XTB, said: “There is basically no chance of a rate cut at this month’s meeting, according to the swaps market.

“Traders are now convinced that the two further cuts expected this year will be accompanied by a Monetary Policy Report. There is currently a 75pc chance of a rate cut in May, and a 55pc chance of a cut in August.”

Britain’s growth prospects have been downgraded for the next two years in the wake of Rachel Reeves’s tax raid and Donald Trump’s escalating trade war.

The OECD lowered its forecast for UK growth to 1.4pc this year and 1.2pc in 2026, down from 1.7pc and 1.3pc, in a blow for the Chancellor ahead of next week’s Spring Statement.

The Paris-based institution warned that UK inflation was likely to remain above the Bank of England’s 2pc target, limiting its scope to cut interest rates and boost the economy.

British consumers were more pessimistic about their future amid growing uncertainty about job security, a survey has indicated.

The S&P Global UK Consumer Sentiment Index dropped to a 15-month low of 45.3 in March as financial wellbeing across UK households deteriorated sharply.

Maryam Baluch, economist at S&P Global, said: “Job insecurity persisted for a third straight month.

“With businesses already taking a more cautious approach to hiring following changes to employment policies, households have been impacted.

“Headwinds to the labour market and a more general slowdown in the UK economy affected households’ perceptions on their financial health over the coming months.

“In fact, March data revealed that financial wellbeing over the coming year is set to deteriorate sharply.

“Sentiment regarding the outlook was the most downbeat in 15 months. Firms also continued to express their concerns around savings and cash availability.”

Britain is on course for a recession as employers slash jobs and Rachel Reeves plots spending cuts, a major think tank has warned.

The Resolution Foundation said that the Chancellor is set to break her own fiscal rules, having put Britain on course for a £4.4bn budget deficit.

Analysis of official payroll data shows the UK jobs market “is already in recession territory” after Ms Reeves announced a record tax raid, the think tank said, with the number of people in work falling at a pace consistent with an economic contraction.

Ms Reeves, the Chancellor, is expected to resort to swingeing cuts to disability spending in an attempt to balance the books as she prepares to update the country on the state of the public finances in next week’s statement.

European shares edged higher as investors started the new trading week with caution around the escalating global trade war.

The Cac 40 in Paris was up 0.2pc and the Dax in Frankfurt gained 0.1pc. The FTSE 100 in London was last up 0.1pc.

It comes off the back of weekly gains of just 0.1pc loss for all three indexes after US president Donald Trump flip-flopped on tariffs, whcih amplified concerns about an economic slowdown.

Meanwhile, focus this week will be on the US Federal Reserve’s interest rate decision on Wednesday, with traders expecting the central bank to keep rates on hold.

The pound rose towards a five-month high against the dollar after the latest move in Donald Trump’s erratic trade policy.

Sterling was up 0.1pc to $1.294, with the US currency also down 0.1pc versus the euro, which is worth $1.088.

Goldman Sachs analysts Dominic Wilson and Kamakshya Trivedi said there had been a “sharp re-rating lower” of US assets “on the back of tariff volatility and the environment of broader policy uncertainty created by the new administration”.

He added that the euro was also being lifted by Germany’s expected approval of a €500bn (£421bn) fund for infrastructure spending.

The dollar is down almost 6pc from a two-year peak set in mid-January against other major currencies, as optimism that Mr Trump would spur growth turned into worries that his trade policies could trigger recession.

Data on Friday showed US consumer sentiment plunged to a nearly two-and-a-half-year low in March and inflation expectations soared amid worries about the effect of sweeping US tariffs, which have ignited a global trade war.

HSBC analyst said US retail sales figures due later today “will be a big test for the USD given the slump in consumer confidence surveys”.

Stock markets in London lacked direction at the start of trading as Donald Trump said there would be no exemptions to his metal tariffs.

The FTSE 100 rose 0.1pc to 8,639.89 after the US president said he would hold talks with Vladimir Putin on Tuesday about ending the war in Ukraine.

However, the domestically-focused FTSE 250 fell 0.1pc amid the prospect that Britain will not secure any special treatment regarding US levies on steel and aluminium.

Defence contractor Qinetiq has said its UK intelligence business and US arm have been knocked by contract delays amid heightened geopolitical uncertainty.

The Farnborough-based company added that it is launching a restructuring of its US business to help drive growth.

It said its underlying profit guidance for this year will face a hit of up to £30m due to its struggles in the US.

It added that it expects a goodwill impairment of around £140m on its accounts due to the uncertain market backdrop.

The group said its UK intelligence operation, which represents 25pc of group revenues, has experienced further delays to contracts so far this year, impacting recent trading.

Donald Trump said there would be no exemptions to his steel and metal tariffs in a blow to Sir Keir Starmer as he seeks smoother trade ties with America.

The US president insisted he had “no intention” to allow exemptions to his 25pc metal levies imposed last month.

Mr Trump’s comments complicates Britain’s growth outlook as Chancellor Rachel Reeves prepares to deliver her Spring Statement where she is expected to announce cuts to public services in response to weakness in the UK economy.

Unlike the EU, Britain refrained from imposing retaliatory tariffs when the US import taxes came into effect last Wednesday.

US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick had praised Britain for holding back while Mr Trump had indicated after meeting Sir Keir Starmer at the White House last month that the UK and US could “very soon” reach a “great” and “real” trade deal.

Speaking to reporters on Air Force One, Mr Trump said there was no plan for exemptions, adding reciprocal duties on US trading partners would come alongside car duties.

“In certain cases, both,” Mr Trump said when asked if he would be imposing sectoral and reciprocal tariffs on April 2.

He added: “They charge us, and we charge them. Then, in addition to that, on autos, on steel, on aluminum, we’re going to have some additional.”

Thanks for joining me. Donald Trump said he has no plans to allow exemptions to his steel and aluminium tariffs in a blow to Sir Keir Starmer.

In a warning for the world economy, the US president also said on Air Force One that reciprocal tariffs and sector-specific tariffs would come into force on April 2.

1) Gen Z risks benefits crisis as four in 10 consider giving up work Worsening mental health among young workers is fuelling a rise in economic inactivity

2) Britain ‘headed for recession’ as Reeves plots spending cuts Employers are cutting back on hiring before Chancellor’s National Insurance rise takes effect

3) The risky assumptions underpinning Ed Miliband’s green job promise Labour’s promise of a just energy transition for North Sea workers hinges on lofty ambitions

4) Lurpak boss: Conspiracy theorists are targeting our butter Arla chief says boycott will not deter company from making decisions based on science

5) Roger Bootle: Defence spending spree can transform our economy – if we do it right A complete review of Britain’s productive capacity is needed for rearmament to be successful

Oil prices struck a two-week high and Asian stock markets charged higher as investors weighed up the contrasting fortunes between the United States and the rest of the world.

Brent crude surged more than 1pc to more than $71 a barrel after Donald Trump said he plans to speak to Vladimir Putin on Tuesday and discuss ending the war in Ukraine, which could bring more Russian energy supplies back to Western markets.

In China, data showed retail sales growth quickened in January-February in a welcome sign for policymakers, though joblessness rose and factory output eased.

Shares hardly reacted to the mixed data as investors awaited a press conference later in the day from Beijing’s top planning agency and elsewhere for more details on measures to boost consumption.

The CSI 300 blue-chip index last traded 0.3pc lower, while the Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.2pc.

Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index jumped 0.9pc.

MSCI’s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan , climbed 0.9pc, while Japan’s Nikkei advanced 0.9pc.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
