# Nasdaq, S&P 500, Dow surge following February's CPI report

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/video/nasdaq-p-500-dow-surge-134343481.html
Timestamp: 1741787023 (2025-03-12T13:43:43)

SUMMARY: US stocks (^DJI, ^IXIC, ^GSPC) are surging ahead at Wednesday's session open on the backdrop of February's Consumer Price Index (CPI) reading that found inflation to have risen slightly than expected last month. Morning Brief anchor Brad Smith and Yahoo Finance markets and data editor Jared Blikre examine this morning's market and sector moves. To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action, check out more Morning Brief here.

US stocks (^DJI, ^IXIC, ^GSPC) are surging ahead at Wednesday's session open on the backdrop of February's Consumer Price Index (CPI) reading that found inflation to have risen slightly than expected last month.

Morning Brief anchor Brad Smith and Yahoo Finance markets and data editor Jared Blikre examine this morning's market and sector moves.

To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action, check out more Morning Brief here.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average, that begins the day higher by about half a percent. The Nasdaq composite that starts off the day up by about 1.7% and the S&P 500, that also in the green by about 1% to start off today's trading session. Of course, after we got the February Consumer Price Index data that came out this morning. Let's also take a look at some of the sector activity out of the gate here this morning. 11 sectors on the S&P 500, we got them loaded up here for you on the screen. It's some of the trades that ultimately we saw a lot of investors kind of flowing into earlier on to start the week with some of the volatility that was playing out. There are actually pulling up the caboose here today. Utilities uh specifically and staples. Those we're catching a bit earlier in the week. You're now seeing those down right now to start off today's trading session. Utilities flat just barely to the downside, but staples down by about 9/10 of a percent. You're also taking a look at health care down by about 3/10 of a percent right now. But leading the pack, catching a little bit of a bid out of the gate this morning, you've got technology. That's up by about 2%. Going just a little bit deeper into technology. Let's look at the tech heavy Nasdaq 100 here as you're seeing Nvidia up starting off the day by about five and a half percent in the green. You've also got some green movement here for Amazon. That is up by about two and a quarter percent. Alphabet, Google, whatever you're calling them at home, call them higher. They're up by about one and a half percent and meta platforms. You're seeing that up by about 4% on a relative basis, the best performer of the mag seven here over the course of the year to date. We'll continue to track this, but for a deeper dive on today's early tape, let's get on over to Yahoo Finances Jared Blickre for a look at what's moving. Hey Jared.

Thank you, Brad. I'm going to go back to the S&P 500 and just kind of review some of the technicals here. We have S&P 500 flirting with correction territory. You need a close at or below 552974. So about 5530. We just touched that level yesterday intraday, but definitely didn't close there. But uh my point of all of this is that last Friday non-farm payrolls, that would have marked a good time for the market to reverse up. We've got the S&P 500 oversold now on relative strength index and you put it all together. The market should be climbing higher right now. It's just really having a difficult time doing that. Anytime you see a rally, it tends to get sold in the middle of the day. So that's a dynamic we're working with. Want to check in briefly on the 10-year T-note yield, that is up now after reversing lower. It is up uh three basis points to 4.32%. Not going to read too much on that. We'll look at it at 3:00 p.m. when the 3:00 p.m. when the bond market officially closes today. That's Eastern Time. And then just a note on sector action that Brad was going over the mega cap sectors, X XL KY and C. That's consumer discretionary communication services and tech itself are the leaders, while the defensive sectors which have done recent well recently, those are lagging today. So a reversal of fortunes and maybe this is the bullish input uh impulse that we've been looking for. Highlighting Tesla real quickly, it's up 6 7% today. This would be the best day from January. You can still see that it's down 40% on the year. And I want to switch over to Futures Land where I was tracking copper over the last few days, and actually over the last couple weeks intermittently. It's up 2.73% today. That is a highest level since uh May 2024. So we're seeing copper get into some interesting areas right now and that's on the back of tariffs. That's not necessarily a demand picture. That's a tariff supply story. And I'll leave it with crypto here. Bitcoin, well, Bitcoin briefly touched 84,000. It is now down a little bit, but a bullish reaction at least initially off of Bitcoin earlier this morning off of CPI.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
