# Boeing outlook, Tencent, XRP: Market Minute

Article ID: 161510397
Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/video/boeing-outlook-tencent-xrp-market-161510397.html
Timestamp: 1742400910 (2025-03-19T16:15:10)

SUMMARY: Yahoo Finance host Brad Smith tracks several of this morning's biggest stock moves in this Market Minute, including Boeing's (BA) upbeat outlook, Tencent's (TCEHY, 0700.HK) surging fourth quarter profits, and cryptocurrency XRP's (XRP-USD) moves higher after the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) dropped its lawsuit against Ripple Labs. Stay up to date on the latest market action, minute-by-minute, with Yahoo Finance's Market Minute. It's time for Yahoo! Finance's market minute. Stocks ...

Yahoo Finance host Brad Smith tracks several of this morning's biggest stock moves in this Market Minute, including Boeing's (BA) upbeat outlook, Tencent's (TCEHY, 0700.HK) surging fourth quarter profits, and cryptocurrency XRP's (XRP-USD) moves higher after the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) dropped its lawsuit against Ripple Labs.

Stay up to date on the latest market action, minute-by-minute, with Yahoo Finance's Market Minute.

It's time for Yahoo! Finance's market minute. Stocks are jumping as investors await the Fed decision and summary of economic projections. Boeing shares rising after the company's CFO said it's off to a good start for the year. The plane maker on track to burn less cash and deliver more planes in the current quarter than previously anticipated. Shares of Chinese tech company Tencent higher after its fastest pace of revenue growth since 2023, driven by 23% sales growth in its gaming business. The company also laid out its plan to boost AI spending, saying it will spend a percentage of its 2025 revenue on capital expenditures, including AI infrastructure. And cryptocurrency XRP soaring after the company CEO behind the token Ripple Labs said the SEC had dropped its case against them. Now we're seeing Bitcoin and Ether jump alongside XRP. That's your Yahoo! Finance market minute. For more on what's trending on Yahoo! Finance, scan the QR code below to track the best and worst performing stocks of the session.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
