# The market hasn't bottomed just yet. So what is the data telling us?

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/video/market-hasnt-bottom-just-yet-141500069.html
Timestamp: 1742220900 (2025-03-17T14:15:00)

SUMMARY: As US equities (^DJI, ^IXIC, ^GSPC) move into positive territory at the start of Monday's trading session, Wall Street has gathered that it took just 16 sessions to drag the S&P 500 just 10% lower and into a correction in 2025. Nationwide Chief Market Strategist Mark Hackett comes on The Morning Brief to discuss where the market could be bottoming and what February's retail sales data and trading activity could be indicating about recession fears. Also, catch Yahoo Finance's of how the options m...

As US equities (^DJI, ^IXIC, ^GSPC) move into positive territory at the start of Monday's trading session, Wall Street has gathered that it took just 16 sessions to drag the S&P 500 just 10% lower and into a correction in 2025.

Nationwide Chief Market Strategist Mark Hackett comes on The Morning Brief to discuss where the market could be bottoming and what February's retail sales data and trading activity could be indicating about recession fears.

Also, catch Yahoo Finance's of how the options market could be signaling forthcoming market stability.

To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action, check out more Morning Brief here.

It's time now for today's strategy session. It took just 16 days for the S&P 500 to enter into a correction, followed by a 2% rally on Friday. Now investors are asking if we found the bottom for stocks. Joining us now, Mark Hackett, Nationwide's chief market strategist. Mark, it's great to have you on here. Is the worst behind us?

There's certainly signs of the bottoming process. Uh, bottoming processes are very rarely one day like we saw on Friday. So, I think it might be a little bit of a turning here, uh, but, you know, we, as you mentioned, the, the move we saw to correction was the seventh fastest on record. That's unsettling. That's an emotional market. The good news is we've had 48 10% corrections, but only 12 bear markets since World War II. So in general, it's not necessarily that you have a 20% move when you have a 10% move. Uh, in fact, 75% of the time, this is kind of what you see. Difference maker usually is a recession. Now at this point, there's warning signs of a little bit, but the data at this point isn't suggesting that.

What are those warning signs?

Uh, the retail sales number was, um, a little bit weak. Uh, the personal spending number two weeks ago also reiterated that. You saw a lot of the retailers were giving a little bit of a cautious commentary, particularly in the high end of the consumer. You talked about that in the last segment. Uh, so, you know, that is the things that we're watching very closely, but we're not seeing any signs today that we're heading for a recession. Most of it is about worries about data coming down the line. Uh, so we're going to be watching that very closely, but, you know, in general, one phenomenon that we've seen pretty consistently over the cycle is people aren't necessarily doing what they say. So we're seeing a collapse on things like consumer sentiment on Friday. We're seeing CEO confidence weaken, investor sentiment, as we all know is historically weak at this point, but we're not seeing necessarily the, the, the historical pattern is leading indicators of surveys lead to deterioration and spending. We're seeing weakness in small business sentiment, CEO confidence, consumer confidence, but to date, that really hasn't resulted in a lot of weakness in the actual data. It's more about the worries about the data.

This sounds like a personal attack, Mark, because you're basically saying Brad, you say that the prices of eggs are high, yet you still go out and you buy your bacon egg and cheese every single day.

That. And historically, there would have been a lot more correlation between people getting scared and people behavior changing. What we have seen very consistently since the beginning of the pandemic is people have been acting much more cautious than that they're pretending to be more cautious than they're actually being. Uh, we're seeing that a lot in the investor side of things too. The buy the dip mentality is still very much in play, uh, regardless of the fact that investor sentiment, you know, bearish sentiment in the AAII survey is at historical levels relative to being at a record high three weeks ago. Uh, but we're seeing by the dip behavior. We saw it on Friday. Bank of America data showed that that was happening throughout last week. Uh, so, you know, that has not broken yet. You layer that with, uh, the share repurchase activity that's accelerating too, and now you have a little bit of buying pressure that can cause that bottoming process. Again, uh, picking days of bottoms is difficult, but picking patterns is a lot easier.

What's interesting though, is that we are seeing in terms of behavior a little bit of a flight to safety, right? You've got gold at record highs, you've got inflows into money market funds increasing. I believe it was a record at the first week of March for a yearly basis. Does that indicate hedging, or does it indicate concern that we're heading toward a recession?

It, I guess it depends on the audience. So the retail investor, I believe is still very much in the, uh, buy the dip camp and the allocate to equities camp. Uh, 401k participation, for example, is at record highs at this point. Every two weeks, whether you like the market or not, generally most of us are buying into the market. Uh, that is a behavior that causes a little bit of a tailwind for markets. Institutional investors are a little bit of a different story. Record put buying, for example, is an indicative of nervousness. A lot of the hedge fund activity coming up to last week had been pretty negative. That started to turn around. So I think when you talk about the retail investor, you know, a phenomenon that again, is different this cycle than in the past perhaps is we usually look for institutional investors to be the adults in the room and be the more stable, rational ones with the retail investor being a little bit more volatile. We've seen that actually in reverse this cycle where retail investors have pretty consistently been buying equities. Now they're also buying money markets and bonds, so it's a more balanced allocation. Obviously the money market returns and rates and bond rates are drawing a little bit of those flows, but retail investors have been consistently buying. Companies have been consistently repurchasing. It's the institutional investors that's the one at the margin.

Really interesting. Mark, thanks so much for taking the time here in studio with us. Good to see you.

Thank you. Thanks.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
