# Trump accuses Ireland of luring companies away from US

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/trump-accuses-ireland-luring-companies-193002280.html
Timestamp: 1741807802 (2025-03-12T19:30:02)

SUMMARY: Donald Trump has criticised Ireland for using its tax policies to lure away US companies, as he threatened to escalate his trade war with the EU. Speaking in the Oval Office next to the Irish premier, Micheál Martin, he took aim at Ireland’s use of its tax system to attract pharmaceutical and other companies. He said: “We do have a massive deficit with Ireland because Ireland was very smart. They took our pharmaceutical companies away from presidents that didn’t know what they were doing and its...

Donald Trump has criticised Ireland for using its tax policies to lure away US companies, as he threatened to escalate his trade war with the EU.

Speaking in the Oval Office next to the Irish premier, Micheál Martin, he took aim at Ireland’s use of its tax system to attract pharmaceutical and other companies.

He said: “We do have a massive deficit with Ireland because Ireland was very smart. They took our pharmaceutical companies away from presidents that didn’t know what they were doing and its too bad that happened.”

Mr Trump said that had he been president when Ireland began to use its tax system to attract US companies, he would have retaliated.

He said: “When the pharmaceutical companies started to go to Ireland, I would have said that’s okay if you want to go to Ireland I think that’s great, but if you want to sell anything into the United States, I’m going to put a 200pc tariff on you so you’re never going to be able to sell anything into the United States.

“You know what they would have done? They would have stayed here.

“I have great respect for Ireland and what they did. And they should have done just what they did, but the United States shouldn’t have let that happen.”

Dublin introduced a 12.5pc corporation tax rate in 1997, which led to some large US companies recording large revenues in the country.

This embedded content is not available in your region.

The US president also threatened further action against the EU, saying that he would “respond” to the EU’s retaliatory tariffs announced today.

“We’ve been abused for a long time and we will be abused no longer,” he said.

“The European Union treats us very badly, and they have for years,” he added. “They sue our companies and win massive amounts of money. They sued Apple ... and they use that for other reasons, I guess, to run the European Union.”

He said that the EU’s policies “create ill will, and as you know, the reciprocal tariffs”.

The US president said his reciprocal tariffs, which he has pledged to introduce next month, will help rebuild US manufacturing.

He said tariffs will restore fairness to US trade and rebalance his country’s “massive [trade] deficit” with the rest of the world.

Mr Trump spoke with reporters at the start of a meeting with the Irish prime minister.

Read the latest updates below.

Thanks for joining us.

That’s all for today but you can keep up with the latest news and commentary on business and the economy here.

The US budget deficit totalled $307bn (£237bn) for Donald Trump’s first full month in office, the US Treasury Department said today.

The figures are up 4pc, or $11bn, from a year ago.

Receipts totalled $296bn in February, a record for that month. That figure was up 9pc, or $25bn, compared with a year earlier. But outlays in February totalled $603 billion, also a record for that month. That was up 6pc, or $36bn, from the year-earlier period.

Driving the spending growth in February was higher outlays on debt interest payments, outlays for child tax credit payments and increased pension payments.

Omar Mejia, the deputy governor of Mexico’s central bank, has said it remains to be seen whether Donald Trump’s tariffs will have a lasting impact on his country.

He said that tariffs have been a negotiating tool for the US and that he is hopeful that talks will prevail.

Wall Street advanced this afternoon as cooler-than-expected inflation data helped stem a sharp sell-off among tech stocks. But the escalation of Donald Trump’s chaotic, multi-front tariff war kept gains in check.

The S&P 500 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq were in positive territory, the latter enjoying a muscular boost from technology shares, led by microchips.

The blue-chip Dow waffled between red and green and is currently modestly higher.

Paul Nolte, at wealth manager Murphy & Sylvest in Illinois, said that shares “are higher on the expectation that the Fed could consider additional rate cuts. But CPI [inflation] is looking backward - it’s last month’s data - and we still don’t have a good sense of what the tariffs may do to inflation.”

“The tariff discussion continues to cloud confidence in investors,” Mr Nolte added.

In his latest tariff salvo, Trump imposed 25pc duties on imported steel and aluminium, prompting Canada and Europe to respond in kind, ramping up their retaliatory tariffs on US exports.

Donald Trump stepped up his criticism of the EU this afternoon, pledging to win his trade war as he recited his own experience dealing with European red tape.

Speaking next to the Irish premier Micheál Martin, he said: “I have a big property in Ireland that you [Mr Martin] know well, [one of] the most highly rated hotels in Europe.”

He said: “I was going to do a project there, a big expansion of the place. This was when I was a civilian, before the presidency ... and I got the approvals from Ireland so quickly; they were so professional.

“I was told something that bothered me. You also have to get approval from the European Union. I said: why do I have to go to the European Union to expand a hotel that’s in Ireland? They said, well, that’s the way it is. I said: well, shouldn’t that go fast? They said: no, it’ll take at least seven years. You gave me the approval in about four weeks.”

He told Mr Martin: “Think about how bad that is for your country. So that was my first experience with the European Union and I dropped the project.”

It came as Mr Trump pledged to win the trade war with the EU. “They know what they have to do,” he said. “This is not going to be a tough battle.”

Donald Trump has said he will consider new tariffs on German cars after repeating crticism of the EU for not importing US cars.

The US president said: “We have a problem with the European Union. They don’t take our farm products. They don’t take our cars. We take millions of cars. BMWs and Mercedes Benz and Volkswagens and everything.

“I said the Angela Merkel at the time [she was German Chancellor during part of his first term in office[. Angela, how many Chevrolets do we have in the middle of Munich? ‘Why none.’”

He added: “I’m not happy with the European Union and we’re going to win that financial battle.”

Asked by a reporter if he would consider tariffs on EU cars, he said: “Oh, absolutely.”

Donald Trump openly challenged US allies today by increasing tariffs on all steel and aluminium imports to 25pc as he vowed to take back wealth “stolen” by other countries, drawing quick retaliation from Europe and Canada.

The US president’s use of tariffs to extract concessions from other nations points toward a possibly destructive trade war and a stark change in America’s approach to global leadership. It also has destabilised Wall Street and stoked anxiety about an economic downturn.

“The United States of America is going to take back a lot of what was stolen from it by other countries and, frankly, by incompetent US leadership,” Mr Trump told reporters. “We’re going to take back our wealth, and we’re going to take back a lot of the companies that left.”

European shares bounced back today following four trading days of falls on optimism around positive developments in the Ukraine-Russia conflict. Meanwhile a cooler-than-expected US inflation report also helped sentiment.

The pan-European Stoxx 600, which includes some of Britian’s biggest companies, closed 0.8pc, snapping its longest losing streak since December.

The US agreed on Tuesday to resume military aid and intelligence-sharing with Kyiv following Ukraine’s willingness to accept a 30-day ceasefire proposal with Russia.

“It’s creating some optimism given that if we do see a ceasefire and a potential peace deal coming through, that could reduce energy costs in Europe and there’s a lot of benefits coming from that,” said Fiona Cincotta, senior market analyst at City Index.

Wall Street will strongly rebound this year, a leading economist has claimed.

James Reilly, at Capital Economics, said: “It’s little surprise that inflation data for February hardly moved the dial for the US stock market – that probably requires clarity on trade policy and signs of economic resilience.

“Our base case is that both of these will come in the coming months (even if the former in particular appears far from certain) and spark a strong rebound in the US stock market.”

He added that business leaders “just want to know what changes they face, and investors may well take a similar view. So, provided that the administration settles on a tariff policy of some kind, and the economic data stabilise, that could be enough to spark a rebound in US equities.”

The UK’s flagship stock index climbed back into the green after its worst run since September, riding tailwinds from positive negotiations over the war in Ukraine and US inflation data. The FTSE 100 rose on the back of Kyiv supporting Washington’s proposal for a 30-day ceasefire with Russia and the US resuming military aid. Defence giant Rolls-Royce soared 4.1pc.The announcement from the US that the consumer prices index (CPI) had dropped faster than expected from 3pc in January to 2.8pc in February, suggesting faltering consumer confidence, rocked British consumer goods companies with US exposure.   Guinness-brewer Diageo dropped 1.7pc, exacerbated by the EU’s revival of retaliatory tariffs against US spirits at the doubled rate of 50pc. Ulrich Adam of trade body spirit Europe, which represents Diageo, said the tariffs would be “devastating” for the drinks industry on both sides of the Atlantic. Diageo generates around 45pc of its US sales from products that must be made in Mexico or Canada, such as Don Julio tequila and Crown Royal Canadian whisky, putting it at threat of Trump’s April tariffs. The world’s largest spirits maker can take solace in Laurence Whyatt of Barclays’ push back against the prevailing view that Gen Z has turned its back on alcohol. Whyatt reaffirmed his team’s “overweight” rating of Diageo, saying reports of a structural decline in drinking, particularly in the US, are overblown.Mining group Rio Tinto, which is one of Canada’s biggest metal producers, also fell as much as 2pc as Donald Trump’s 25pc tariff against aluminium and steel from Canada came into effect.

Two giant South Korean steelmakers have said they are considering investing in the US after Donald Trump imposed hefty tariffs on steel imports

Posco Holdings and Hyundai Steel said they were considering investing in production in the US, although no final decisions had been made.

A Posco Holdings spokesman said that the company would aim to focus on making “high-value-added products” in the US.

Hyundai is considering building a steel factory in the south-east United States but nothing has been decided, a spokesman said, adding that the increased US tariff would have a negative impact on the Korean steel industry.

South Korea previously benefited from a duty-free steel quota under an agreement made in 2018 during Trump’s first term as president.

Its trade ministry said on Wednesday the government will prepare measures that would include supporting domestic firms’ investment overseas and expansion into new markets.

Donald Trump has indicated that he is confident of winning his trade skirmish with the EU.

“We’re going to win that financial battle,” he said on EU tariffs.

EU policies have soured its relations with the US, Donald Trump has said.

Speaking to reporters beside the Irish premier this afternoon, he said: “The European Union treats us very badly, and they have for years... They sue our companies and win massive amounts of money. They sued Apple ... and they use that for other reasons, I guess, to run the European Union.”

He added that “it does create ill will, and as you know, the reciprocal tariffs”.

An influential economics think tank has attacked Donald Trump’s trade policies.

Tom Clougherty, executive director of the Institute of Economic Affairs, said: “Tariffs are an act of economic self-harm. Our response to the US harming its own consumers should not be to follow suit. Much better to stick to a principled, free trade approach.

“If all options really are on the table, the British Government should actually be thinking about unilateral trade liberalisation, to protect consumers from increased prices.

“It may be counter-intuitive, but that would be the pro-growth option.”

Donald Trump has said that his tariffs plan will restore fairness to US trade, even as major partners announced countermeasures to new US tariffs on steel and aluminium.

“We’ve been abused for a long time and we will be abused no longer,” he said.

Trump spoke with reporters at the start of a meeting with the Irish prime minister, Micheál Martin, in the Oval Office.

Donald Trump has this afternoon threatened to escalate his trade war further.

“Of course we’ll respond,” he said regarding EU retaliatory tariffs.

Donald Trump has this afternoon said Ireland had used its tax policies to lure away pharmaceutical and other companies from the United States, and doubled down on his vow to impose reciprocal tariffs to help rebuild US manufacturing.

Mr Trump spoke with reporters at the start of a meeting with Irish Prime Minister Micheál Martin in the Oval Office.

Donald Trump is set to meet with Irish prime minister Micheál Martin today, with Mr Trump’s trade policies and the conflict in Gaza among the potential topics of conversation.

The annual White House meeting to mark St Patrick’s Day is usually a relatively straightforward affair for both the US and Ireland. The Irish premier typically presents the president with a bowl of shamrocks as a symbolic gift, a tradition that will be observed during this visit. Recent meetings were with Mr Trump’s proudly Irish-American Democratic predecessor, Joe Biden.

But today’s meeting comes as Mr Trump has begun to shake up the global economy with a raft of tariffs, with many more promised or threatened. While none of the measures has been aimed directly at Ireland, the nation of 5.4m has a trade surplus with the United States and US-owned foreign multinationals employ a significant portion of Irish workers.

Mr Trump has repeatedly taken aim at countries with which the US has a trade deficit, and he has pledged broad measures to bring jobs back to the US. He has also threatened to slap tariffs on pharmaceutical products, a major industry in Ireland.

“I am very, very conscious that in a very challenging world, thousands and thousands of jobs depend on the economic relationship between the United States and Ireland,” Mr Martin said earlier this month.

Brazil’s finance minister has said that the South American country will not immediately retaliate against US tariffs imposed on steel and aluminium imports.

Fernando Haddad said that the country was instead seeking negotiations.

Canada’s incoming prime minister Mark Carney said this afternoon that he is ready to negotiate directly with Donald Trump over a renewed trade accord.

The former governor of the Bank of England said: “I’m ready to sit down with President Trump at the appropriate time under a position where there’s respect for Canadian sovereignty and we’re working for a common approach, a much more comprehensive approach for trade.

“We are all going to be better off when the greatest economic and security partnership in the world is renewed, relaunched.”

Canada and the United States, along with Mexico, are bound by a decades-old free trade agreement that was refreshed during Mr Trump’s first term.

But since returning to the White House, Mr Trump has ordered tariffs on trading partners including Canada. On Wednesday, a 25pc levy on steel and aluminium imports into the United States took effect.

Canada supplies half of US aluminium imports and 20 percent of US steel imports, according to industry consultant EY-Parthenon.

Canada hit back today by announcing additional 25pc tariffs on 29.8bn Canadian dollars (£23bn) of US goods.

Wall Street is struggling for direction this afternoon after Donald Trump imposed 25pc steel and aluminium tariffs globally. The benchmark S&P 500 jumped to a big early gain on an encouraging inflation update, but went negative of other countries announced their retaliations.

The S&P 500 is currently up 0.2pc, the Nasdaq is up 0.8pc and the Dow is down 0.5pc.

The unsettled trading comes a day after the S&P 500 briefly fell more than 10pc below its all-time high set last month.

Dragging the market lower were US companies that could be set to feel pain because of Trump’s trade war. Brown-Forman, the company behind Jack Daniel’s whiskey, tumbled 7.1pc, and Harley-Davidson sank 6pc.

France - along with Spain and Italy - has reportedly asked the the European Commission exclude wine and spirits from the list of US goods to be hit with tariffs.

Reuters has reported that an executive from a large European spirits producer said today that the three countries had all made their views known.

The European Commission said it had launched of a two-week consultation to “ensure that the right products are chosen for inclusion in the new countermeasures” after publishing a 99-page list of proposed tariffs.

Mexico will not immediately retaliate against steel and aluminium tariffs imposed by Donald Trump, president Claudia Sheinbaum has said.

The Mexican leaders said the US’s closest southern ally would wait until April 2 - when Trump has pledged to impose separate reciprocal levies.

She told a news conference the country would delay its response “to see if we also need to take some actions”.

She said: “We will wait until April 2 and from then we will see whether our definition of reciprocal tariffs will be applied too.”

Thanks for following these updates on the global tariff war so far today. Alex Singleton is stepping up now to guide you into the evening.

It is too soon to celebrate the fall in US inflation as the world braces for the hit from Donald Trump’s tariffs, analysts have warned.

The consumer prices index (CPI) dropped faster than expected from 3pc in January to 2.8pc in February, according to the Labor Department, helping boost stock markets on Wall Street and in Europe.

Seema Shah at Principal Asset Management said: “It’s worth remembering that this may be the calm CPI report before the storm.

“Not only does the Fed need to wait for tariff policy clarity, but once tariff implementation arrives it is likely to bring at least some price increases, with the inflation picture potentially getting uglier as the months go on.”

Ms Shah said companies such as Delta Air Lines are acting as canaries in the coal mine by voicing concerns about faltering consumer spending.

Thomas Ryan of Capital Economics said the drop in inflation was “not as encouraging as it looks”.

Richard Flax of Moneyfarm said the stubborn US inflation had kept the Fed walking a tightrope over rate cuts.

He said: “While rate cuts remain on the table, policymakers may still favour caution rather than risk moving prematurely and reigniting inflationary pressures. “President Trump’s latest tariff announcements inject further uncertainty into the equation, potentially stoking price pressures rather than easing them.”

George Lagarias at Forvis Mazars added: “February’s inflation is one of the last numbers to mostly reflect the previous economic regime. The next numbers should begin to incorporate economic disruption and tariffs.”

The European Union’s trade policies are “out of step with reality”, the US trade representative has said after the bloc announced “countermeasures” to Donald Trump’s metal tariffs.

Trade lawyer Jamieson Greer, a veteran from Mr Trump’s first term in office, criticised the €26bn (£21.9bn) of tariffs on American goods imposed by the bloc.

He said: “For years, the European Union has opposed the United States’ efforts to reindustrialise.

“The EU has rejected attempts under successive US administrations to cooperate effectively on dealing with global excess capacity on steel, aluminium, and other sectors, employing measures that are too little and too late.

“If the EU acted as quickly to address global excess capacity as it does to punish the United States, we likely would be in a different situation today.

“The EU’s punitive action completely disregards the national security imperatives of the United States – and indeed international security – and is yet another indicator that the EU’s trade and economic policies are out of step with reality.”

Goldman Sachs has cut its stock market earnings forecasts as the US trade war escalates.

The investment bank slashed its growth expectations for earnings per share on the benchmark S&P 500 stock index from 9pc to 7pc, after its analysts downgraded their US GDP forecasts.

Earlier this week Goldman’s US economics team cut their expectations for US growth this year from 2.4pc to 1.7pc, following President Donald Trump’s barrage of global tariffs.

The S&P 500 has plunged by 9pc in the last three weeks due to the policy turbulence.

Equity strategist David Kostin said in a client note that the bank now expects the S&P 500 to end the year at 6,200, down from 6,500 previously.

This suggests the stock index will still rise by 11pc across the year as previously estimated, but from a lower starting point after the recent drop.

It also cut its estimates for earnings per share to $262 to $280, down from $268 to $288.

Mr Kostin said: “Our revised estimates reflect the recently reduced GDP growth forecast of our US Economics team, a higher assumed tariff rate, and higher level of uncertainty that is typically associated with a greater equity risk premium.”

Canada said today it would impose on a range of US goods in response to Donald Trump’s metal tariffs.

The country will enforce levies worth $29.8bn Canadian (£16bn) in total, including levies on computers, sports equipment and water heaters worth $14.2bn Canadian.

Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc said: “We will not stand idly by while our iconic steel and aluminium industries are being unfairly targeted.”

Canada’s new tariffs are in addition to its 25pc counter tariffs on $30bn Canadian of imports from the US that were put in place on March 4 in response to other Trump import taxes that he has partially delayed by a month.

Canada has announced fresh tariffs against the US in one of Justin Trudeau’s final acts as prime minister.

America’s closest northern ally said it would impose levies on $20.7bn (£16bn) after Donald Trump pressed ahead with 25pc tariffs on steel and aluminium today.

Canada will enforce tariffs on $12.6bn Canadian of US steel and $3bn Canadian of American aluminium.

It comes after the EU announced it would impose €26bn (£21.9bn) of tariffs against a range of US goods in response to Mr Trump’s trade war.

Stock markets surged on both sides of the Atlantic as investors shrugged off the tariff war between the US and the EU.

The Nasdaq Composite was up 1.6pc to 17,713.82 while the benchmark S&P 500 gained 0.6pc to 5,607.96 in early trading.

Global markets have endured severe swings this month as Donald Trump warned the American economy faces a “period of transition” as he presses ahead with his tariff agenda.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.3pc to 41,294.32 as the EU announce retaliatory measures to the US president’s 25pc levies on steel and aluminium, which came into effect today.

However, stocks jumped today as annual US consumer inflation slowed by slightly more than expected to 2.8pc in February, in the first full month since Mr Trump’s return to the White House.

The FTSE 100 was up 0.3pc in afternoon trading, while the Cac 40 in France gained 0.7pc and the Dax in Frankfurt rose by 1.5pc.

Jochen Stanzl of CMC Markets said: “The inflation data are a bright spot in the Federal Reserve’s battle against rising prices.

“They reinforce the expectation of three rate cuts later in 2025.”

Brussels is targeting Middle America as it fires its opening salvos in what risks becoming a full-blown trade war between the US and EU.

European Commission officials have been wargaming for this moment since Donald Trump’s first term, and have a hit list of iconic US products ready for countermeasures.

The list is designed to hit Trump voters’ pride and their pockets.

A crisis meeting on Wednesday morning over breakfast at the Commission’s Berlaymont headquarters will almost certainly have seen croissants served – but, as EU officials are well aware, it is the price of eggs that is preoccupying US voters.

The cost of living crisis is one of the key reasons the Biden administration lost to Trump in the 2024 presidential election. This week, the Trump White House faced questions over the soaring price of supermarket bills.

Britain has not been snubbed by Donald Trump after America imposed steel and aluminium tariffs on imports, Downing Street suggested.

Prime Minister’s official spokesman disagreed when asked if Sir Keir Starmer felt his efforts to negotiate a deal with the US had been snubbed by the introduction of the levy.

He said: “No. As the Prime Minister said in the House, obviously these are global tariffs, not targeted at the UK.

“From the UK’s perspective we will look at all options and keep all options on the table. We are prioritising engagement with the United States to stand up for British industry and find a resolution.”

Asked whether the economic deal planned between the US and UK would cover steel and aluminium, the spokesman said he was “not going to get ahead of those discussions”.

Business Secretary Jonathan Reynolds will discuss the deal in Washington DC next week, which the Government has previously suggested will be focused mainly on technology co-operation.

Asked if progress on the deal might result from the meeting, the Prime Minister’s official spokesman said: “That is obviously the aim of the discussions. The Business Secretary has already had discussions with his counterpart on this and they will progress those discussions next week.”

The cost of eggs in the US has soared nearly 60pc in a year amid a devastating outbreak of avian flu and ongoing tariff uncertainty. US grocery prices were unchanged last month from January, bringing respite to consumers grappling with a 25pc jump in grocery prices from four years ago.

However, the cost of eggs jumped 10pc, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics latest consumer prices index (CPI). Avian flu has forced farmers to slaughter more than 160 million birds, including 30 million in January, driving prices from a consistent $2 a dozen to a record $4.95.Farmers are also bracing for the impact of fresh retaliatory tariffs from the European Union levied on US industrial and farm products, as well as China’s recent tariffs on agricultural products. Paul Donovan, economist at UBS, said: “Egg prices will no doubt be a social media meme, but neither Federal Reserve Chair Powell nor Trump are chicken farmers, and cannot affect a relative price shock.”Fed Chair Jerome Powell said on Friday that in some cases tariffs could worsen inflation, such as a “series” of price hikes which cause consumers to expect inflation to move higher.“What really does matter is what is happening with long-term inflation expectations,” he said.

British manufacturers have said Donald Trump’s fresh trade tariffs on metals will create “severe problems” and are a “big concern”.

Liam Bates, president of long products at Marcegaglia, a steel maker in Sheffield, said the tariffs are “very unhelpful”.

Between 15pc and 20pc of what Marcegaglia melts in Sheffield is sent to the US, across both semi-finished and finished steel products.

Some of those products are “already burdened”, with UK producers facing issues including global competition, high energy costs and the shift to cleaner technologies.

“There was a lull in demand (for UK-made steel) anyway, and therefore to take more away and create more uncertainty does create additional issues for us,” he told PA.

Mark Brearley, owner of Kaymet, a small business manufacturing aluminium trays, said the latest tariffs are “a big concern”.

He said he was still unsure which of his products will be hit, but that about 20pc of the company’s sales of trays, trolleys and other products are to American customers.

“We have to decide whether to go ahead with production of orders that we fear may soon be cancelled,” he told PA. “It will definitely impact sales, it will probably kill most of them in the US.”

US bosses have praised Britain for resisting the urge to retaliate to US metal tariffs amid hopes the UK can secure an exemption from Donald Trump’s 25pc levies on steel and aluminium.

BritishAmerican Business chief executive Duncan Edwards said: “The new US administration has set out to be a pro-business, pro-growth government and there is much in its agenda that our members will be encouraged by.

“However, imposing tariffs on a close trading partner like the UK, does not feel helpful to either country. Rather than fostering economic growth, these measures introduce unnecessary friction in a strong and mutually beneficial trade relationship.

“We welcome the UK government’s decision not to introduce its own retaliatory tariffs, and we hope discussions between the two governments can help reduce trade and investment barriers, strengthen economic ties, and ensure businesses on both sides of the Atlantic can thrive.”

US stock indexes gained sharply after inflation eased by more than expected last month.

Labor Department data showed the consumer prices index rose 2.8pc in February, which was better than the drop from 3pc to 2.9pc forecast by analysts.

Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose at its slowest pace since April 2021, down from 3.3pc in January to 3.1pc. It was lower than the 3.2pc forecast.

In premarket trading on Wall Street, the S&P 500 was up 79 points, or 1.4pc, the Nasdaq 100 gained 330 points, or 1.7pc, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 447 points, or 1.1pc.

The rate of US inflation fell more sharply than expected last month despite the threat of tariffs from Donald Trump.

The consumer prices index dropped from 3pc in January to 2.8pc in February.

Sir Keir Starmer said the UK would “keep all options on the table” to respond to Donald Trump’s decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminium imports, writes Dominic Penna.

During Prime Minister’s Questions, Sir Ed Davey called for Sir Keir to be “more robust” with Donald Trump and fly out to Canada “as soon as possible” to show the UK stands with the country “against Trump’s threats and against Trump’s tariffs”.

“Canada is an ally and a very important ally too and I’ve spoken to our allies on many occasions about the situation in Canada,” Sir Keir said.

“On the question of tariffs, like everybody else I’m disappointed to see global tariffs in relation to steel and aluminium. But we will take a pragmatic approach.

“We are as he knows negotiating an economic deal which covers and will include tariffs if we succeed but we will keep all options on the table.”

Ministers must push for urgent negotiations to secure exemptions from Donald Trump’s metal tariffs, according to a senior MP.

Liam Byrne, the chairman of the Business and Trade Select Committee of MPs, said the US administration’s blanket 25pc tariff on steel and aluminium imports was “deeply concerning for UK industry.

The committee will hold a session next week with steel industry representatives on what can be done to limit the impact of tariffs.

Mr Byrne said: “This trade war serves no-one. The UK government must push for urgent negotiations with the US to secure exemptions, and work with British businesses to protect them from these damaging measures.

“The US blanket 25pc tariff on global steel imports is deeply concerning for UK industry, threatening jobs and competitiveness at a time when our steel sector is already under immense pressure.”

Canada is expected to announce retaliatory tariffs on the US later in response to Donald Trump’s steel and aluminium tariffs.

The Commonwealth nation will impose $29.8bn Canadian of levies against US goods, a Canadian official told Reuters.

Canada is the biggest foreign supplier of steel and aluminium to the United States.

The escalation of the US-Canada trade war comes as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau prepares to hand over power this week to his successor Mark Carney, who won the leadership race of the ruling Liberals on Sunday.

On Monday, Mr Carney said he could not speak with Trump until he was sworn in as prime minister. The US president said again on social media this week he wanted Canada “to become our cherished Fifty First State.”

Puma suffered its steepest stock market plunge on record as the sportswear maker blamed trade disputes for a weak outlook for the year ahead.

The German-listed company’s shares plummeted as much as 25pc to their lowest since 2016 after it cut its profit forecasts for this year.

It predicted underlying earnings would be between €520m (£438m) and €600m (£505.3m), which was down from last year and below analysts estimates.

The company warned that “geopolitical tensions and macroeconomic challenges will continue, especially trade disputes and currency volatility, which is expected to weigh on consumer sentiment and demand in key markets”.

It told investors: “Against this backdrop, Puma expects currency adjusted sales to grow in the low- to mid-single-digit percentage range in the financial year 2025.

“While the environment remains volatile and challenging, the company will continue to focus on its controllables, executing its brand elevation strategy and taking decisive actions to address its cost basis with its next level programme.”

US stock indexes moved higher in premarket trading after a brutal sell-off at the start of the week over fears of a US recession.

Donald Trump’s metal tariffs appeared to have little impact on markets, despite the retaliation announced by the EU.

Companies such as Ford, General Motors, Howmet and Honeywell, which use steel and aluminium in their supply chains, were little changed in premarket trading.

Financial markets have been thrown into disarray, with analysts warning of capital flight from Wall Street as concerns mount that Trump’s wavering tariff policy onslaught could stoke inflation and possibly trigger a recession.

The uncertainty has also resulted in companies holding back on investments and lowering forecasts, with Delta, Kohl’s and Walmart being among the latest to do so.

The tech-heavy Nasdaq confirmed a correction last week, while the benchmark S&P 500 came close to confirming a 10pc drop from its February high on Tuesday.

Ahead of the opening bell today, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.5pc, the S&P 500 gained 0.7pc and the Nasdaq 100 was up 0.9pc.

However, that could change when US inflation figures are published at lunchtime.

The dollar struggled to lift off a five-month low against major peers after the EU announced retaliatory measures against US tariffs that came into force today.

The US dollar index, which measures the currency against a basket of six major peers, was flat in European trading hours, following Tuesday’s slide of 0.5pc that took it its lowest since October 16.

The pound was flat against the US currency at $1.294 while the euro was little changed at $1.092.

The dollar was steady against the loonie at C$1.4439, after swinging between gains of 0.5pc and losses of 0.4pc on Tuesday over Donald Trump’s doubling of metal tariffs against Canada before announcing a swift reversal.

Meanwhile, US inflation figures are expected to impact markets when they are published at 12.30pm UK time.

Kenneth Broux of Societe Generale said: “There’s so many, so many moving parts.”

Stocks and currency markets face a “lose-lose” situation ahead of US inflation figures later today, analysts have warned.

The American consumer prices index (CPI) is expected to show a drop from 3pc in January to 2.9pc in February.

However, it comes during a week of turmoil on financial markets caused by Donald Trump’s global trade war.

Investors have been on edge since Mr Trump said the US economy faced a “period of transition”, raising fears of a recession in the world’s largest economy.

Julien Lafargue, chief market strategist at Barclays Private Bank, said US inflation figures later may be set up the market for “a lose-lose situation”.

He said: “A higher-than-expected reading could fuel the stagflation narrative while a weaker-than-expected print could cement recession fears.

“What the market really needs at this point is better visibility on growth rather than on inflation.”

The price of oil has edged higher despite Donald Trump’s tariffs threatening to upend global trade.

Brent crude, the international benchmark, inched 0.5pc higher but remained below $70 a barrel, while US-produced West Texas Intermediate rose towards $67.

Oil has slumped nearly 15pc since mid-January amid concerns US tariffs will trigger a slowdown in the world economy, impacting demand.

However, prices have been supported after US Energy Information Administration reduced its prediction for a surplus in supplies this year.

It halved its outlook for a glut of oil in 2026 over the prospect of falling production from Iran and Venezuela.

Yeap Jun Rong of IG said: “Overall sentiment remains fragile despite a slight bounce in today’s session.

“Tariff developments are still lacking clarity and there’s persistent concerns over US growth.”

The euro gained against the dollar as the European Union announced “countermeasures” to Donald Trump’s metal tariffs that will target €26bn (£21.9bn) of US goods.

The single currency climbed 0.1pc versus the greenback to $1.092 and was up 0.2pc against the pound at 84.4p.

Sterling was flat against the dollar at $1.294.

Investors will wait to see the latest US inflation figures later, which could indicate how likely it is that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates.

China has vowed “all necessary measures” in response to the metal tariffs by the United States.

Beijing’s foreign ministry spokeswoman Mao Ning said: “There are no winners in trade wars.”

China is the world’s leading steel manufacturer but is not a major exporter of the product to the United States.

Ms Mao said Washington’s tariffs would “seriously damage the rules-based multilateral trading system”.

Donald Trump’s metal tariffs will harm jobs and prosperity on both sides of the Atlantic, according to the head of the American Chamber of Commerce to the EU.

Malte Lohan said the 25pc tariffs imposed on steel and aluminium from today “are not the same as those imposed in 2018”.

He said: They are more stringent and cover a range of downstream products, meaning their impact will be harsher and affect even more sectors.”

Mr Trump imposed 25pc tariffs on steel and 10pc levies on aluminium from most countries during his first term in office.

Mr Lohan added: “These tariffs, along with the EU’s announced countermeasures, will only harm jobs, prosperity and security on both sides of the Atlantic.

“The two sides must de-escalate and find a negotiated outcome urgently.”

Christine Lagarde said the European Central Bank (ECB) faced a “formidable task” to keep inflation under control as Donald Trump unleashed metal tariffs on the world.

The president of the eurozone’s central bank said policymakers were operating in a “new era” as they battle to bring the pace of price rises back to their 2pc target.

Speaking at a conference in Frankfurt, Ms Lagarde said: “Maintaining stability in a new era will be a formidable task.

“It will require an absolute commitment to our inflation target, the ability to parse which types of shocks will require a monetary reaction and the agility to react appropriately.”

The ECB last week cut interest rates for the sixth time since last summer but warned that monetary policy was becoming “meaningfully less restrictive”, with inflation in the eurozone at 2.4pc.

Ms Lagarde warned that there were “two-sided shocks” to inflation.

She said: “Trade fragmentation and higher defence spending in a capacity-constrained sector could in principle push up inflation.

“Yet US tariffs could also lower demand for EU exports and redirect excess capacity from China into Europe, which could push inflation down.”

European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said the EU “must act to protect consumers and business” as she announced the bloc’s response to the 25pc US tariffs on global steel and aluminium.

She said: “The countermeasures we take today are strong but proportionate.”

European shares jumped despite the deepening global trade war after Ukraine accepted the US’s proposal for a 30-day ceasefire with Russia.

The pan-European Stoxx 600 was up 0.6pc after losing 1.7pc on Tuesday after Donald Trump said he would double tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminium - a pledge he has reversed overnight.

A majority of sectors on the index clocked gains in early trading, led by 1.1pc jump in the index of European banks .

Ukraine accepted a ceasefire proposal after eight hours of talks with US officials in Jeddah on Tuesday, with Marco Rubio, the secretary of state, saying the ball was now in Russia’s court.

The Cac 40 in Paris rose 0.8pc to 8,003.30 while the Dax in Frankfurt climbed 0.8pc to 22,509.36.

Zealand Pharma jumped 34pc after Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche acquired rights to an obesity therapy by the Danish biotech firm in a collaboration deal worth up to $5.3bn (£41.bn). Shares of Roche were up 4pc.

Meanwhile, Puma tumbled 22pc to an eight-year low after the German sportswear group gave a disappointing outlook for first-quarter sales.

Donald Trump slapped similar tariffs on EU steel and aluminium during his first term in office, which enraged European and other allies.

The EU also imposed countermeasures in retaliation at the time, raising tariffs on US-made motorcycles, bourbon, peanut butter and jeans, among other items.

This time, the EU action will involve two steps.

First, the commission will reintroduce what it calls “rebalancing measures,” which the EU had from 2018 and 2020 but which were suspended under the Biden administration.

It will then impose additional duties targeting €18bn (£15.2bn) in US exports to the bloc.

European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said: “As the US are applying tariffs worth $28bn, we are responding with countermeasures worth €26bn.”

EU trade commissioner Maroš Šef&ccaron;ovi&ccaron; travelled to Washington last month in an effort to head off the tariffs, meeting with US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick and other top trade officials.

He said on Wednesday that it became clear during that trip “that the EU is not the problem.”

“I argued to avoid the unnecessary burden of measures and countermeasures, but you need a partner for that. You need both hands to clap,” Mr Šef&ccaron;ovi&ccaron; said at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France.

Britain’s recycling efforts could be impacted by Donald Trump’s tariffs on aluminium, the head of an industry body has warned.

Nadine Bloxsome, chief executive of The Aluminium Federation, said: “The UK aluminium sector is already seeing the first impacts of these tariffs.

“The sharp rise in US premiums has created new incentives for scrap exports, raising the risk of significant domestic scrap leakage.

“This not only weakens the UK’s recycling capacity but risks undermining our sustainability objectives and circular economy targets.

“Additionally, the uncertainty around potential trade diversion is placing considerable pressure on UK producers, especially as semi-finished goods may flood the UK market at lower costs.”

The FTSE 100 opened higher after Donald Trump reversed course on plans to double tariffs on Canada’s steel and aluminium sector.

The UK’s blue-chip index had dropped 1.2pc on Tuesday after the US president said he would raise his metal tariffs on his nearest ally to 50pc.

However, he cancelled the move after the premier of Ontario, Canada’s largest province, said he would suspend its 25pc electricity export tariff impacting the US.

The FTSE 100 rose 0.2pc to 8,512.37 in its first response to the Canada move, although gains were limited by the EU announcing retaliatory tariffs.

The midcap FTSE 250 began the day 0.3pc higher at 19,821.93.

The shadow business secretary accused the Government of having “no plan” for how to respond to US tariffs on steel and aluminium after “naively trying to cosy up to the EU”:

The UK is in a “very different position than the EU”, a Treasury minister has insisted after being asked whether Britain could look weak for failing to impose retaliatory tariffs on the US.

Exchequer secretary to the Treasury James Murray said Britain does not want to be “pushed off course” from its pursuit of an economic deal with the US.

He told Sky News: “Well, we’re in a very different position than the EU as a result of the Prime Minister’s trip to Washington last month.

“The UK and the US have been negotiating rapidly for an economic agreement, and so we’re in a position where that negotiation is ongoing and these global tariffs, if you like, have landed in the middle of that work. So we don’t want to be pushed off course by this.

“We want to carry on with our rapid negotiation toward an economic agreement, because we think that’s in the best interest of British businesses and the British public.”

Mr Murray said the UK should avoid a “knee-jerk response”.

“We think the right response is to continue pragmatically, cool-headedly, without a knee-jerk response, but toward our economic agreement that we’re negotiating with the US to secure, because that’s in the best interests of the UK.”

Steel companies are having their contracts cancelled or put on hold in response to Donald Trump’s tariff war, according to an industry boss.

Gareth Stace, the director-general of trade association UK Steel, told BBC Radio 4: “One member company was saying their shipment was due to arrive ahead of the tariffs being imposed.

“There are storms on the Atlantic but there are storms... that have delayed that shipment so that batch that they are supplying to their valued customers in the US will, from two hours ago, once it lands, attract a 25pc tariff, which for the UK steel industry will amount to, in total, £100m a year that our customers will need to pay in the US manufacturing sector that they weren’t paying only two hours ago.”

Gareth Stace, the director-general of trade association UK Steel, branded the Trump administration’s move “hugely disappointing”.

He added: “President Trump must surely recognise that the UK is an ally, not a foe. Our steel sector is not a threat to the US but a partner to key customers, sharing the same values and objectives in addressing global overcapacity and tackling unfair trade.

“These tariffs couldn’t come at a worse time for the UK steel industry, as we battle with high energy costs and subdued demand at home, against an oversupplied and increasingly protectionist global landscape. What’s more, the EU is also pushing ahead with trade restrictive action that will amplify the impact of US tariffs.”

Mr Stace added: “It is essential that the UK Government not only continues efforts to negotiate exemptions with the US but also takes decisive action to bolster our trade defences. We greatly appreciate all the efforts that have been made so far and will continue working closely with our Government to secure the best possible outcome.”

The UK is going to “reserve our right to retaliate” but will seek a “pragmatic” approach in response to global tariffs imposed by the US, a Treasury minister said.

Exchequer secretary to the Treasury James Murray said: “We’re not going to retaliate immediately in that way.”

He said the tariffs were “disappointing” but “we want to take a pragmatic approach, and we’re already negotiating rapidly toward an economic agreement with the US, with the potential to eliminate additional tariffs.”

Asked whether the imposition of retaliatory tariffs would remain on the table, Mr Murray told Times Radio: “We reserve our right to retaliate, but we’re very clear that we want a pragmatic approach, working closely and productively with the US.”

The Business Secretary has said Donald Trump’s decision to impose global tariffs on steel and aluminium is “disappointing” and “all options” are on the table to respond in the national interest.

Britain has resisted imposing immediate retaliatory action against the move, while the European Union has already announced it will introduce counter-measures on American goods.

UK industries are braced for the impact of the tariffs, which came into effect at midnight in the US, around 4am UK rime, and raise a flat duty on steel and aluminium entering America to 25pc.

Jonathan Reynolds said: “It’s disappointing the US has today imposed global tariffs on steel and aluminium.

“We are focused on a pragmatic approach and are rapidly negotiating a wider economic agreement with the US to eliminate additional tariffs and to benefit UK businesses and our economy.

“Meanwhile we remain resolute in our support for UK industry. This Government is working with affected companies today, and I back industry’s application to the Trade Remedies Authority to investigate what further steps might be necessary to protect UK producers.”

The European Commission said US steel and aluminium products would be hit in return for the Trump administration’s metal tariffs, which come into effect today.

It said its measures would also impact American textiles, leather goods, home appliances, household tools, plastics and wood.

Agricultural products will also be impacted — including poultry, beef, some seafood, nuts, eggs, sugar and vegetables.

European Comission president Ursula von der Leyen said: Tariffs are taxes. They are bad for business, and even worse for consumers.

“These tariffs are disrupting supply chains. They bring uncertainty for the economy.”

The European Union has announced it will impose retaliatory tariffs on the US after Donald Trump stepped up his global trade war.

The European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, said it would impose “countermeasures” after US levies on steel and aluminium came into force today.

The EU’s response to the Trump administration’s 25pc tariffs will affect €26bn (£21.9bn) of US goods from April 1.

The bloc’s tariffs will hit not just US steel and aluminium products, but also textiles, home appliances and agricultural goods.

European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said: “We deeply regret this measure.

“We are ready to engage in meaningful dialogue.”

“We will always remain open to negotiation. We firmly believe that in a world fraught with geopolitical and economic uncertainties, it is not in our common interest to burden our economies with tariffs.”

Thanks for joining me. The European Union (EU) has announced it is launching “countermeasures” to Donald Trump’s 25pc tariffs on steel and aluminium.The European Commission said it would enforce its measure from April 1.

Robert Maxwell fraud haunts Mirror publisher as pension eats cash | Shortfall follows years of challenges for fund after £400m stolen by late boss

Volkswagen open to building military equipment for German army | Europe’s biggest carmaker prepares for approach from defence industry

Mental health crisis drives surge in benefit claims since lockdown | Bill for health-related welfare payments is now £12bn higher than pre-Covid cost

Ambrose Evans-Pritchard: Trump’s ‘reverse Nixon’ charade insults our intelligence | The US president’s crude goal is to separate Russia from China – sacrificing Ukraine as a pawn

Jeremy Warner: Money is fleeing the US to Europe – let’s hope it’s warranted | The Continent is beginning to look like a safe bet against Washington’s bedlam

Asian shares were mixed on Wednesday as investors weighed the impact of President Donald Trump’s tariffs after another day of losses on Wall Street.

The US president’s escalation in his trade war briefly pulled the S&P 500 more than 10pc below its record set last month. The head-spinning moves came after Trump upped his tariffs against Canadian steel and aluminium, prompting the Canadian province of Ontario to remove a surcharge that had enraged him.

Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 gained 0.1pc to 36,819.09.

Hong Kong’s Hang Seng fell 1.1pc to 23,533.21, while the Shanghai Composite edged down nearly 0.2pc to 3,373.01.

Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 dropped 1.3pc tp 7,786.20. South Korea’s Kospi added 1.5pc to 2,574.82.

Wall Street suffered a choppy session yesterday, in which it briefly went 10pc below its latest record-high close. The S&P 500 finished down 0.8pc, at 5,572.07, while the Nasdaq Composite finished off 0.2pc down at 17,436.10. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 1.1pc, to close at 41,433.48.

In the bond market, the yield on benchmark 10-year US Treasury notes rose to 4.285pc from 4.190pc late on Monday.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
