# Global stocks tumble amid economic slowdown fears and Trump tariffs

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/live/ftse-100-live-stocks-bets-trump-recession-091847834.html
Timestamp: 1741624952 (2025-03-10T16:42:32)

SUMMARY: US stocks followed FTSE 100 (^FTSE) and European stocks solidly lower on Monday as traders and economists remained cautious that Donald Trump slapping tariffs on major trading partners and slashing the size of the Federal government will hurt growth. The American president said on Sunday that the world’s largest economy faces “a period of transition”, echoing the words used by Treasury secretary Scott Bessent on Friday. When asked by Fox News if a downturn was possible this year, he replied: "I ...

US stocks followed FTSE 100 (^FTSE) and European stocks solidly lower on Monday as traders and economists remained cautious that Donald Trump slapping tariffs on major trading partners and slashing the size of the Federal government will hurt growth.

The American president said on Sunday that the world’s largest economy faces “a period of transition”, echoing the words used by Treasury secretary Scott Bessent on Friday.

When asked by Fox News if a downturn was possible this year, he replied: "I hate to predict things like that. There is a period of transition, because what we're doing is very big — we're bringing wealth back to America. It takes a little time."

Bond traders are now increasing their bets on a US recession as the trade war deepens.

The yield on two-year Treasury bonds has fallen sharply since mid-February amid increasing bets that the Federal Reserve will have to cut interest rates to support the economy.

Read more: Trending tickers: Nvidia, Reddit, BP, Reckitt Benckiser

Meanwhile, Mark Carney is set to become Canada's new prime minister after his election as the Liberal Party's leader. Carney's initial signal is that he intends to take a hard line on tariff negotiations.

Elsewhere, Brent Crude (BZ=F), a gauge of expectations about the health of the global economy, has dipped back again, trading around $70 a barrel, as energy demand is expected to be weaker as economies slow.

Last week the VIX index (^VIX), which tracks fear levels on Wall Street, hit its highest level since December, as the early market enthusiasm after Donald Trump’s election victory subsided.

London’s benchmark index (^FTSE) was 0.9% lower by the end of the session, with mining companies and banks among the fallers.

Germany's DAX (^GDAXI) was 1.8% down and the CAC (^FCHI) in Paris headed 1% into the red.

The pan-European STOXX 600 (^STOXX) was down 1.4%.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) fell around 1.1%, while the benchmark S&P 500 (^GSPC) dropped roughly more than 2% after the index posted its worst week since September. The Nasdaq (^IXIC) also plummeted more than 3.4% with "Magnificent Seven" stocks leading the sell-off.

All three major indexes looked set to build on losses of more than 2% last week.

The pound was down 0.1% against the US dollar (GBPUSD=X) at 1.2900.

Stocks to watch this week: TSMC, Oracle, Volkswagen, Inditex and Persimmon.

Stocks: Create your watchlist and portfolio

Follow along for live updates throughout the day:

Well that's all from us today, thanks for following along. Be sure to join us again tomorrow when we'll be back for more of the latest markets news, and all that's happening across the global economy.

Until then, have a good evening!

Tesla (TSLA) has slumped by more than 8% in early trading, meaning the stock has more-than-halved in the last three months.

Shares were down almost 9% at $239.57 each after the bell in New York as some analysts worry if Musk moves into the political sphere it will hurt its brand.

Tesla’s stock hit an all-time high of $488/share on 18 December, amid the ‘Trump bump’ that propelled the US stock market higher.

Dan Coatsworth, investment analyst at AJ Bell, said:

Magnificent 7 stocks since the start of the year, wiping a total $1.57tn (£1.21tn) off the group's valuation, according to data provided by investment platform AJ Bell (AJB.L).

Chipmaker Nvidia (NVDA) saw the biggest decline of the group, having lost $539.13bn off its valuation year-to-date.

Tesla (TSLA), Amazon (AMZN), Microsoft (MSFT), Apple (AAPL) and Alphabet (GOOG, GOOGL) have also seen their valuations fall since the beginning of the year.

Social media Meta (META) is the only Mag 7 stock to have seen its valuation rise this year, up $93.72bn.

Dan Coatsworth, investment analyst at AJ Bell (AJB.L), said that the group as a whole had seen an "astonishing" $1.57tn drop in value, though Meta (META) had "become the Lone Ranger, representing a significant turning point for the tech collective."

"Other labels slapped on popular stocks including "Faangs" and "Mamaa" were quickly confined to the history books — is the Magnificent Seven now joining them?"

Read the full article here

The Cboe Volatility Index, an options-based gauge of expected volatility in the S&P 500 (^GSPC) widely known by its trading symbol, VIX (^VIX), jumped Monday morning to its highest level since December.

In recent action, it was trading at 26.70, after hitting its highest intraday level since 18 December. Often referred to as Wall Street's "fear gauge," the VIX often spikes during sharp selloffs. The VIX's long-term average is seen as just below 20.

The VIX was jumping as major stock indexes opened sharply lower and maintained steep losses, with the S&P 500 down 1.7% after suffering its worst week since September.

Hundreds of flights have been cancelled across Germany as airport workers stage a nationwide strike over pay.

The strike, called by the Verdi union on Friday, began unexpectedly on Sunday and impacts 13 airports across the country, including Munich, Berlin and Dusseldorf.

Passengers at Frankfurt, Munich, Berlin and other major hubs have been urged not to travel to airports, with operations severely disrupted.

Verdi, which represents public sector and transport workers, is in an ongoing dispute over wages and working conditions. It is demanding an 8% wage increase, or at least an increase of 350 euros ($380) more per month, as well as higher bonuses and additional time off.

Employers have rejected the demands as unaffordable, with negotiations due to continue later this month, Reuters reports.

The pound is up against the dollar again today, trading as high as $1.2946, just above its highest levels last week. It is its strongest position against the dollar since early November.

Fawad Razaqzada, market analyst at City Index, said:

UK consumer confidence rose 1.4 points in February, from 111.1 to 112.5, taking it back to levels set in December.

This was according to the YouGov/Centre for Economics and Business Research consumer confidence index.

Here's a snapshot of the data:

Britons were less optimistic about household finances for the year ahead (-1.4), and workers more worried about job security (-0.5) compared to January 2025

Business activity measures for past 30 days (+2.0) and next 12 months (+1.2) rise

Outlook for house prices rises (+5.2), as do retrospective measures (+1.6)

Sam Miley, managing economist and forecasting lead at Cebr, says:

Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have been back in the spotlight, after soaring on the back of Donald Trump’s election, then plummeting back down again before getting another boost when the president fleshed out some details about a proposed US crypto reserve.

The risk of dramatic ups and downs in the market are well known, and investors shouldn’t get into it without realising they could lose everything.

However, it’s not the only risk to be aware of – because even if you make money on crypto, you could be felled by tax.

If you earned the crypto through work, or made it by mining it, then you could be in the frame for income tax. But if you bought it, the tax to worry about is capital gains tax (CGT).

You’ll need to work out what gain you’ve made. You can pool the cost of the coins you’re selling (assuming they are the same type of coins), considering what you paid for each of them, and then working out an average cost per coin.

Then you can work out the gain by subtracting that from the selling price. It means you need to be certain about what you paid for the coins and how much they have gained in value since then.

Read more here

German exports fell by 2.5% in January, coming in weaker than the 0.5% rise expected by economists.

This pulled the country's trade balance down to 16 billion for the month, down from 20.7 billion in December.

However, industrial production rose by 2.0% month-on-month in January.

Carsten Brzeski, global head of macro at ING, said:

As we cruise into the afternoon, here's a quick snapshot at what's been happening in equity markets this morning.

Assura (AGR.L) surged after saying it was minded to recommend an improved, £1.61bn cash takeover proposal from investment firms KKR and Stonepeak.

The consortium has offered 49.4p per share, which is 2.9% increase on the previous proposal of 48p per share.

The company also said it had received and rejected an indicative, non-binding proposal from Primary Health Properties about a possible all-share combination with an implied value of 43p per share.

Watches of Switzerland (WOSG.L) rallied as it launched a £25m share buyback.

Deliveroo gained as it said it had decided to exit its Hong Kong operations through a sale of certain assets to Foodpanda and the closure of other assets.

Great Portland Estates (GPE.L) rose after saying it had secured its largest fully managed deal to date, letting more than 11,500 sq ft of office space to FTSE 100 retailer Next in central London on a five-year term.

Pennon (PNN.L) was also higher after an upgrade to 'buy' at Citi."Whilst the backdrop for the UK water sector remains uncertain, at the current share price, we believe the market is excessively discounting operational underperformance of over £500m in PNN shares, a quarter of its market cap," the bank said. "We see a valuation gap under our framework with the risk/reward balance skewed to the upside, providing an opportunity for a mean reversion trade."

On the downside, shipping services firm Clarkson (CKN.L) tumbled as it said annual profits were in line with revised expectations, but also that the geopolitical outlook remains uncertain, with ongoing regional conflicts and trade tensions creating uncertainty for markets. Underlying pre-tax earnings came in at £115.3m in line with upgraded guidance published in January. Revenue was up to £661m from £639m.

Hackers thought to be working for the North Korean regime have successfully converted at least $300m (£232m) of their record-breaking $1.5bn crypto heist to unrecoverable funds.

The BBC has the details:

The criminals, known as Lazarus Group, swiped the huge haul of digital tokens in a hack on crypto exchange ByBit two weeks ago.

Since then, it's been a cat-and-mouse game to track and block the hackers from successfully converting the crypto into usable cash.

Experts say the infamous hacking team is working nearly 24 hours a day - potentially funnelling the money into the regime's military development.

Out of all the criminal actors involved in crypto currency, North Korea is the best at laundering crypto, Dr Robinson says.

"I imagine they have an entire room of people doing this using automated tools and years of experience. We can also see from their activity that they only take a few hours break each day, possibly working in shifts to get the crypto turned into cash."

Elliptic's analysis tallies with ByBit, which says that 20% of the funds have now "gone dark", meaning it is unlikely to ever be recovered.

The US and allies accuse the North Koreans of carrying out dozens of hacks in recent years to fund the regime's military and nuclear development.

On 21 February the criminals hacked one of ByBit's suppliers to secretly alter the digital wallet address that 401,000 Ethereum crypto coins were being sent to. ByBit thought it was transferring the funds to its own digital wallet, but instead sent it all to the hackers.

HSBC (HSBA.L) has downgraded its rating on US stocks amid uncertainty causing by Donald Trump’s shifting tariff policies.

The bank advised investors to be “neutral” on Wall Street stocks, down from its previous guidance to be “overweight”, according to Reuters.

It came as the lender raised its rating on European stocks, excluding the UK, after Germany announced its €500bn fund for defence and infrastructure spending.

HSBC strategist Alastair Pinder said:

Oil prices have fallen back towards their lowest level since September after Donald Trump’s warning about the US economy.

Brent crude, the international benchmark, was trading close to $70 a barrel, with US-produced West Texas Intermediate at $67 after seven weeks of declines.

"A disappointing snapshot from China showing consumer prices fell at the fastest rate in 13 months is adding to concerns about weakness in the global economy," said Susannah Streeter, head of money and markets, Hargreaves Lansdown. "Deflation continues to stalk the Chinese economy, with consumers super-cautious about spending."

Efforts by the authorities so far to reduce the cost of borrowing to stimulate growth have not had the desired effect, she added.

"The expansion of a subsidy programme for a range of domestic goods underwhelmed, given the lack of more targeted support for households."

Meanwhile, Opec+ has tempered expectations that it will begin ramping up oil production as soon as April, following wide-ranging cuts.

Firms are holding back on hiring new staff thanks to a “subdued” economic outlook and rising wage bills.

According to the latest business surveys from KPMG and the trade body the Recruitment and Employment Confederation (REC), a marked decline in the number of people being placed in permanent and temporary roles continued in February, although hiring declined at a slower pace than in January.

It came as a separate survey showed that unemployment was rising, as businesses prepared for a rise in labour costs in April, dragging the employment index from the business advisory and accountancy firm BDO down to levels not seen since the wake of the global financial crisis. Business optimism fell for the fifth time in a row.

The monthly jobs report from KPMG and the REC highlighted firms’ weaker demand for workers, as overall vacancies dropped further in February.

More workers have lost their jobs, increasing the number of jobseekers and keeping a lid on overall pay pressures, the report found. Starting salaries rose at their weakest pace in four years.

Neil Carberry, the REC’s chief executive, said:

Carberry called on Reeves to build confidence in the UK’s economic growth when she makes her spring statement to parliament on 26 March.

A look at the UK raises the question of how market participants will deal with the renewed correction. Can this be averted again or will there be a major market shakeout?

Frank Sohlleder, analyst at ActivTrades, said:

He adds that the currency pair of sterling against the US dollar is also an exciting market at the moment.

Japan’s benchmark bond yield hit a 17-year high amid expectations its central bank will keep raising interest rates to keep inflation under control.

The yield climbed to a high of 1.58% after official figures showed the fastest gain in pay for more than three decades.

Last week, Bank of Japan (BoJ deputy governor Shinichi Uchida signalled that the central bank may hike rates further if economic forecasts align with expectations, emphasising that Japan’s exit from ultra-loose monetary policy is only beginning.

Uchida also highlighted that monetary conditions remain highly accommodative, with the BoJ’s reduction in government bond holdings still limited.

Traders and economists remain cautious that Donald Trump slapping tariffs on major trading partners and slashing the size of the Federal government will hurt growth.

The American president said on Sunday that the world’s largest economy faces “a period of transition”, echoing the words used by Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent on Friday.

When asked by Fox News if a downturn was possible this year, he replied: "I hate to predict things like that. There is a period of transition, because what we're doing is very big — we're bringing wealth back to America. It takes a little time."

Bond traders are now increasing their bets on a US recession as the trade war deepens.

The yield on two-year Treasury bonds has fallen sharply since mid-February amid increasing bets that the Federal Reserve will have to cut interest rates to support the economy.

A new study from Juniper Research found that the value of virtual card payments will grow 235% by 2029; rising from $5.2 trillion in 2025.

This represents significant acceleration compared with 2021 to 2025, during which time virtual card transaction values grew by 175%.

This acceleration will be fuelled by growth in the subscription economy in both B2B and consumer markets; driving a surge in demand for seamless recurring payment solutions that virtual cards are uniquely positioned to deliver.

Research author Lorien Carter said:

Mark Carney has been elected the new leader of Canada's Liberal party, succeeding Justin Trudeau who announced his resignation in January.

The former governor of the Canadian central bank and the Bank of England beat three rivals in the leadership contest in a landslide.

He has vowed to win the trade war against US president Donald Trump, who has imposed tariffs on Canada.

"Americans should make no mistake," he said. "In trade, as in hockey, Canada will win."

Carney is expected to be sworn in as PM in the coming days and will lead the Liberals in the next general election, which is expected to be called in the coming weeks.

Shares in Asia were mixed overnight after data showing that Chinese consumer prices slipped back into deflation stoked fresh concerns over the world’s second-largest economy.

Over the weekend Chinese inflation fell 0.7% year-on-year, below the consensus of a 0.4% fall, after a 0.5% decline last month. Core inflation fell 0.1%, the first decline since 2021.

PPI printed at -2.2% against -2.1% expected and -2.3% the previous month. Overall there was likely some distortion due to the timing of Lunar New Year so we'll get a better read next month.

The Nikkei (^N225) rose 0.4% on the day in Japan, while the Hang Seng (^HSI), which has surged 20% this year to a three-year high, fell 1.9% in Hong Kong.

The Shanghai Composite (000001.SS) was 0.2% down by the end of the session.

There were also losses in Singapore, Taipei, Bangkok and Jakarta, although Tokyo, Sydney, Seoul, Wellington, Mumbai and Manila rose.

Beijing’s tariffs on certain US agricultural goods in retaliation for Donald Trump’s latest hike on Chinese imports came into force this morning.

Download the Yahoo Finance app, available for Apple and Android.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
