# Will the Bank of England slow down the pace of interest rate cuts? Have your say

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/bank-of-england-interest-rate-cuts-poll-132330963.html
Timestamp: 1742217810 (2025-03-17T13:23:30)

SUMMARY: The Bank of England (BoE) is set to announce its latest interest rate decision this week, against a backdrop of global economic uncertainty. This week will be a busy one for central banks, with the Bank of Japan and the US Federal Reserve due to share their interest rate decisions on Wednesday, followed by the Swiss National Bank and the BoE on Thursday. Much focus will be on the Fed's decision, with the central bank expected to keep rates on hold, given the uncertainty posed by US president Don...

The Bank of England (BoE) is set to announce its latest interest rate decision this week, against a backdrop of global economic uncertainty.

This week will be a busy one for central banks, with the Bank of Japan and the US Federal Reserve due to share their interest rate decisions on Wednesday, followed by the Swiss National Bank and the BoE on Thursday.

Much focus will be on the Fed's decision, with the central bank expected to keep rates on hold, given the uncertainty posed by US president Donald Trump's unpredictable moves on trade tariffs. There is mounting concern that Trump's trade war could stoke inflation, complicating the Fed's path to lowering interest rates.

The BoE is also expected to keep rates steady on Thursday, with interest rate swaps data showing a 95% chance of a hold decision, according to Morningstar. At last month's meeting. the BoE decided to lower its base rate to 4.5%, its lowest level in 20 months and its third cut in the current cycle.

In a note published on Friday, Sanjay Raja, chief UK economist at Deutsche Bank (DBK.DE), said: "We expect a largely uneventful affair at the March [monetary policy committee] meeting. The path ahead will be one of careful calibration. Uncertainty remains elevated."

Read more: How chip firms have fared since Trump's inauguration, from Nvidia to Intel

Joe Nellis, economic adviser at accountancy and advisory firm MHA, said that the BoE faced "tough choices", but said the odds were increasing that the MPC would "halt any further cuts in interest rates" and keep them on hold on Thursday.

He highlighted that consumer price inflation was on track to rise in the coming months, pointing to the BoE's latest forecast which showed this could hit 3.7% later this year.

"This is well above the Bank's 2% target — and strong average earnings growth and a number of regulated price increases in the pipeline could see inflation rise even higher," he said.

In addition, Nellis said that the UK economy continues to flatline, having contracted 0.1% in January, which was behind expectations for growth.

"The bank is between a rock and a hard place as it tries to steer a balance between much-needed growth and stemming a resurgence of inflation," he said.

"A hold on interest rates on Thursday does not rule out cuts later this year. But any future cuts will be determined by developments in the national and international economies."

Do you think that the BoE will slow down the pace of rate cuts? Vote in the poll below.

Yahoo UK's poll of the week lets you vote and indicate your strength of feeling on one of the week's hot topics. After the poll closes, we'll publish and analyse the results each Friday, giving readers the chance to see how polarising a topic has become and if their view chimes with other Yahoo UK readers.

Read more:

Chancellor urged to raise taxes ahead of spring statement

Average UK house asking price climbs by £3,876 in March

How to make ‘manifesting’ work for your money

Download the Yahoo Finance app, available for Apple and Android.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
