# Using the downturn to build long-term wealth like the ultra-rich

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/video/using-downturn-build-long-term-113018185.html
Timestamp: 1742211018 (2025-03-17T11:30:18)

SUMMARY: The market is on track to record its worst weekly performance in roughly two years. Omega Wealth Management founding partner and senior adviser Lisa A.K. Kirchenbauer outlines strategies to build wealth, taking lessons from the ultra-wealthy like JPMorgan (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon and Berkshire Hathaway (BRK-B, BRK-A) CEO Warren Buffett. To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action, check out more Wealth here.

The market is on track to record its worst weekly performance in roughly two years.

Omega Wealth Management founding partner and senior adviser Lisa A.K. Kirchenbauer outlines strategies to build wealth, taking lessons from the ultra-wealthy like JPMorgan (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon and Berkshire Hathaway (BRK-B, BRK-A) CEO Warren Buffett.

To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action, check out more Wealth here.

During the recessions of 2001 and 2008, incomes fell for Americans across all wealth levels, but when it comes to recovering from economic downturns, the top 1%, oh yeah, you guessed it, they tend to bounce back faster. One reason, the stock market. Three figures who bet big in the financial markets, John Paulson, whose bet against subprime mortgages earned his firm $15 billion, Jamie Diamond, the CEO and the head of JP Morgan Chase, purchased Bear Sterns and Washington Mutual in the depths of the crisis, but the investments paid off, bringing JPM's stock from a 2009 low of $23 per share to roughly $230 a share today. And Warren Buffett, whose investments during the downturn netted him $10 billion. For more on finding opportunity in all types of market volatility from this week's correction to a major downturn, I want to bring in Lisa Kirchenbauer, who is the Omega Wealth Management founding partner and senior advisor. Lisa, great to have you here with us. So, how do we overcome fear and volatility like this to find opportunity?

Yeah, Brad, it's, it's hard to get there right now. There's a lot going on, and I think the key is figuring out what you're really most concerned about, um, and then trying to mitigate that risk or, or whatever your concern is. It's not a one size fits all. It depends on where you are in your life cycle, um, and, are you working? Is your job secure? Are you retired? Are you living off the portfolio? Once you can start to get a handle on that, I think it's a lot easier to shift to where are their opportunities. Your last guest specifically was talking about tax loss harvesting. The wealthy know that's a strategy. Um, you also mentioned Roth conversions, being able to convert your IRA, um, at a lower value. Uh, what the wealthy are able to do is take advantage of opportunities, but you got to know what your risks are, um, before you can move to what your opportunities are.

Earlier today, we had Altee Tidman CEO, Michael Tidman, whose firm has $77 billion in assets under management, AUM, saying this about rebalancing client portfolios.

There's been substantial repricing in high quality fixed income as an asset class. So, we have gone from three years ago being dramatically underweight that asset class to now more in balance than we have been certainly for the prior 10 years. And then we have a lot of diversifying assets and a lot of assets in private markets.

Lisa, I just want to get your reaction. What do you make of that advice?

Yeah, absolutely. I think there is a rebalancing opportunity. The key is, what do you need your portfolio to be doing for you? How growth-oriented do you really need to be? Doing some of that stress testing and planning. Planning is one of the things we can do to mitigate fear and risk right now. So yeah, I think it's a, a great opportunity. Um, it's just hard for people to go against the grain right now. The fear is, uh, the action you want to take is to sell, and yet really what you want to be doing, if you can, is to actually lean into the opportunities.

So what are some strategies for looking at long-term wealth generation?

Yeah, I, you know, I think what we've learned, there's a number of things that, that the wealthy know that they need to do. Um, they don't go to cash, um, but they do think about having sufficient cash reserves, maybe, um, shifting, you know, to more cash and bonds on the money that you're living off of. Not the entire portfolio. So what we're trying to avoid is what we call bad timing risk. That means you're selling the portfolio or parts of the portfolio when it's going down. So, um, doing some tweaks on where you're pulling money from, having sufficient cash reserves, maximizing the returns on your cash, understanding where the risks are, not just in your portfolio, but overall. Are your insurance, you know, have you, do you have the right insurance to protect against, um, wildfires and, and against legal ramifications. Um, and, and then staying invested. I mean, that's really the key is staying invested but shifting your portfolio as needed to support maybe current cash needs or upcoming cash needs.

And so understanding that, we don't have the same amount of assets or capital to throw around like a Jamie Diamond, or like a Warren Buffett, but there are lessons we can take from past downturns. How the super wealthy have navigated that and, and perhaps scale that to our own portfolios. What lessons can we take from some of those past downturns?

Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think it is, is, you know, um, again, where you pull from in your portfolio, if you have to. If, if you're working, your job is secure, then you should be investing right now as the market is moving down. You're getting to buy low. That is the wealthy know how to do that, and they, they do that. Um, and obviously, keeping sufficient cash reserves and trying to maximize the, the yield you're getting on that cash is important. Diversification is key. We don't know where are the best market opportunities right now. Is it international? Is it US? Is it bonds? Is it stocks? So you've got to hedge your bets and have money in all the different areas in order to be able to mitigate market risk. There's all kinds of different market risks.

Lisa, thanks so much for joining us here.

Thanks, Brad. Take care.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
