# F/X trades while central banks adjust policy: Portfolio manager

Article ID: 161425192
Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/video/f-x-trades-while-central-161425192.html
Timestamp: 1726848865 (2024-09-20T17:14:25)

SUMMARY: The Japanese yen (JPY=X) weakened against the US dollar on Friday after the Bank of Japan left its interest rates unchanged. The central bank signaled that it can take its time when deciding to hike rates again as its economy remains on track compared to the uncertainty in the US. Lauren van Biljon, Allspring Global Investments portfolio manager and head of rates & FX for the global fixed income team, joins Seana Smith and Madison Mills on Catalysts to dive into how investors can play the curren...

The Japanese yen (JPY=X) weakened against the US dollar on Friday after the Bank of Japan left its interest rates unchanged. The central bank signaled that it can take its time when deciding to hike rates again as its economy remains on track compared to the uncertainty in the US.

Lauren van Biljon, Allspring Global Investments portfolio manager and head of rates & FX for the global fixed income team, joins Seana Smith and Madison Mills on Catalysts to dive into how investors can play the currency market in the current environment.

"You've really got to control your position sizing and keep your sort of stops both to the upside and the downside," van Biljon says, adding, " I think a good way to play it right now is, is on a more regional basis."

Van Biljon recommends the Norwegian krone (NOK=X) as an attractive option given the global divergence in policy decisions.

For more expert insight and the latest market action, click here to watch this full episode of Catalysts.

Well, let's turn to currencies. We've got the yen weakening against the dollar this morning after that Bank of Japan decision to hold rates steady, signaling they're not in a rush to hike again. Governor Kazuo Ueda saying that with recent economic data on track and the US in an unstable position, the central bank could afford to quote "spend some time making the policy decision." Joining us to discuss the outlook for the central bank and the currency market, we've got Lauren Van Billion. She is a portfolio manager and head of rates and FX for the Global Fixed Income team over at Allspring Global Investments. It's great to have you on, Lauren. So, talk to me about just the BOJ decision to start. What's your reaction?

Yeah, thank you. And great to be with you today. Now, Bank of Japan obviously is the one central bank in the world tightening policy while everyone else is either easing or on hold. So, it's quite an unusual place to be. Um, particularly given that this is the first time the Bank of Japan has has raised its rates in over a generation. Um, and we certainly saw that 15 basis point move, you know, a couple months ago, uh should we say creating a couple of waves washing through the market. Um, so it makes sense now that the BOJ is going to be a little bit cautious. You know, certainly still signaling, uh interest rates need to go higher. But they do have, you know, they have, they've got time on their side. Um, particularly given that everyone else is cutting. Um, you know, so that policy gap is is is narrowing, even if the Bank of Japan is is being less aggressive.

Yeah, Lauren, it's interesting when we talk about this, just from a global bank perspective, outside of Bank of Japan, obviously, with the Fed cutting rates by 50 basis points. I think the narrative, or maybe one thing that investors were asking themselves, are whether or not this was going to give other central banks the green light there in order to act. How are you viewing that from a policy perspective?

This cycle is unusual for a couple of reasons. And and and a big one is that central banks have frontrun the Fed. Yeah, we had emerging markets hiking ahead of the Fed and cutting ahead of the Fed. Um, we've seen developed markets, you know, Canada, New Zealand, uh, Eurozone, uh the UK, all cutting ahead of the Fed as well. So, I've certainly heard the argument that, yep, with the Fed now underway, everyone else can accelerate. But actually, I think the opposite might be true. Um, what we're hearing out of the ECB, um, yeah, European Central Bank, and the Bank of England is is caution. So it it actually feels like the US could be the developed markets, sort of being the most aggressive on interest rate cuts from here.

So, when we take a step back and look at the global divergence that we are seeing in policy decisions, how should investors sort of position around that from a currency standpoint?

It's a good question, because currency is never easy. Uh, and I feel this year has been particularly rife with pivots and conflicting signals. Um, you know, here at Allspring, you know, currency can be very volatile. Um, and it's something you've really got to control your position sizing, and keep your stops, both the upside and downside, pretty tight, I think in current conditions. I think a good way to play it right now is is on a more regional basis, you're trying to capture where the market is getting carried away in one direction or the other. So, for example, maybe it's, you know, taking on a position in the Norwegian krone, funded from the euro. Um, that sort of regional play, I think, can be pretty attractive.

All right, Lauren Van Billion, great to have you here. Thanks so much for weighing in this morning. Allspring Global Investments portfolio manager. Appreciate it.

This post was written by Cheyenne Reid.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
