# Bank of England poised to hold UK interest rates amid Trump trade war

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/bank-england-interest-rates-hold-trump-trade-153518809.html
Timestamp: 1742225719 (2025-03-17T15:35:19)

SUMMARY: The Bank of England (BoE) is widely expected to keep interest rates steady at 4.5% on Thursday, as it navigates the fallout from US president Donald Trump’s trade war and mixed signals from the UK economy. Since August last year, the BoE has been gradually reducing borrowing costs, offering some relief to mortgage holders. At its February meeting, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted 7-2 in favour of a rate cut to 4.5%. However, governor Andrew Bailey has stressed the importance of a “gradu...

The Bank of England (BoE) is widely expected to keep interest rates steady at 4.5% on Thursday, as it navigates the fallout from US president Donald Trump’s trade war and mixed signals from the UK economy.

Since August last year, the BoE has been gradually reducing borrowing costs, offering some relief to mortgage holders. At its February meeting, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted 7-2 in favour of a rate cut to 4.5%.

However, governor Andrew Bailey has stressed the importance of a “gradual and careful approach” to further rate cuts.

Markets indicate a 95% chance of a rate hold this month, with a 77% probability of a cut at the MPC’s May meeting and a 55.6% likelihood of a reduction in August. This marks a significant shift from January, when traders only expected one rate cut for the year, in February, according to Morningstar.

“We expect the Bank of England to hold rates at 4.5% at its upcoming meeting. We see unchanged guidance ('gradual and careful' unwinding of restrictiveness) and three members voting for a cut,” Nomura Bank analysts George Buckley and Andrzej Szczepaniak wrote.

“Looking further ahead, we continue to expect 100bps of BoE cuts for a terminal rate of 3.5% by early 2026. This contrasts with market pricing of 60bps of cuts by then,” they added.

In the latest data for the year leading into January, the UK’s inflation rate stood at 3%, above the Bank of England’s 2% target.

Sandra Horsfield, an analyst for Investec Economics, called the data “bittersweet”.

“But the 0.2 percentage points downside surprise in the services inflation rate, the stickiness of which has presented the main concern for the MPC even as overall inflation has fallen, will have been met with some relief,” she said.

The BoE decision comes as officials assess the uncertainty stemming from US president Donald Trump’s unpredictable tariff policies and looming UK tax hikes. Trump's stop-and-start announcements of tariffs on US allies have rocked financial markets and raised concerns about inflation worldwide.

"Global developments around tariffs and defence spending have mixed implications. We suspect the BoE won't want to rush to judgement on what it all means for the UK economy, with no concrete news yet," Elizabeth Martins, senior UK economist at HSBC (HSBA.L), said.

In November, the BoE had believed inflation was under control and that rates would fall below 4% by 2025. Today, however, the Bank is adopting a more cautious stance.

Official data shows that the UK economy contracted by 0.1% in January, falling short of the 0.1% expansion forecast by economists and down from 0.4% GDP growth in December. The figures come ahead of chancellor Rachel Reeves' spring statement next week, amid speculation about growth downgrades and potential spending cuts.

Read more: Chancellor urged to raise taxes ahead of spring statement

Sanjay Raja, chief UK economist at Deutsche Bank, does not foresee any surprises at the MPC meeting. He expects a “largely uneventful” outcome and sees the path ahead as one of “careful calibration.”

He said: “Uncertainty remains elevated. Growth has seemingly turned a corner. The labour market weakness continues to remain a point of concern. And price momentum — at least on a headline basis — points to more upward pressure — at least in the near-term.”

Raja also predicts a 7-2 vote split, with seven members opting to keep rates unchanged and two calling for a 0.5 percentage point rate cut. He suggested that MPC members Dhingra and Mann might vote for a more “forceful” rate cut due to their concerns about demand-driven weakness in the UK economy and risks around inflation and wage growth.

Overall, Deutsche Bank expects the MPC to lower rates to 3.5% by the end of the year, with further cuts in May, August, November, and December, ultimately reaching a terminal rate of 3.25% in early 2026.

The MPC will also have early access to labour market figures, due to be published on the morning of the rate announcement. Many analysts are concerned about the impact of upcoming hikes in employer national insurance contributions and the minimum wage, as well as rising energy, water, and council tax bills.

Looking further ahead, we continue to expect 100bps of BoE cuts for a terminal rate of 3.5% by early 2026. This contrasts with market pricing of 60bps of cuts by then.George Buckley and Andrzej Szczepaniak, Nomura Bank analysts

Professor Joe Nellis, an economic adviser at chartered accountants, tax and business advisers MHA, warned that the BoE faces difficult decisions ahead.

He said: “The odds are increasing that the Monetary Policy Committee will halt any further cuts in interest rates and vote instead for no change when they meet on Thursday.”

He outlined several reasons for this caution, including the uncertainty surrounding Trump’s tariff policies, which he believes could spark a trade war and drive up inflation. Additionally, with consumer price inflation expected to rise in the coming months — potentially reaching 3.7% later this year — the BoE is caught between managing inflation and fostering economic growth.

“The UK economy continues to flatline, and contracted by 0.1% in January, contrary to growth expectations,” Nellis added. “A hold on interest rates on Thursday does not rule out cuts later this year, but any future cuts will be determined by developments in both the national and international economies.”

Andrew Goodwin, chief UK economist at Oxford Economics, also expects the MPC to hold rates at 4.5% this week, given the heightened uncertainty. He pointed to the “obvious threat” posed by April’s increases in regulated prices, national insurance contributions, and the national living wage, which could exacerbate inflation and impact economic activity.

Read more: How chip firms have fared since Trump's inauguration, from Nvidia to Intel

Goodwin noted that the BoE had previously expressed concerns that these cost increases could either push more people out of work or contribute to higher inflation if businesses raise prices.

The possibility of a US recession in the first half of 2025 also looms large as the trade war intensifies. Economists Robert Wood and Elliott Jordan-Doak of Pantheon Macroeconomics warned that the MPC must consider Trump’s unpredictable tariff actions, which have sparked market volatility and heightened uncertainty.

But they added that the MPC is “as unable as anyone else to predict Trump’s next move”.

The committee last month insisted that it is not yet known how tariffs — which have been placed on China, Canada and Mexico — will impact the UK economy.

The Pantheon economists predict that while the MPC will hold rates in March, it will implement two further cuts in May and November. They also expect the MPC to await the fiscal measures announced by finance minister Rachel Reeves on March 26, as she works to protect her fiscal rules amid weaker-than-expected growth and higher borrowing costs.

“The BoE will have to incorporate additional (fiscal) tightening in the upcoming Budget as it meets in May, and we expect a cut at that meeting,” Allan Monks, an economist at JP Morgan, told Reuters.

Other major central banks are set to decide on interest rates this week, providing guidance on market trajectory. These include the US Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan, the Swiss National Bank and the People’s Bank of China.

Read more: Top ISA fund picks ahead of the new tax year

The US central bank is widely expected to keep its key interest rate unchanged in the coming months, as it awaits greater clarity on the widespread “uncertainty” caused by Trump’s policies, according to Fed chair Jerome Powell.

Powell said the Trump administration is making policy changes in several areas, including trade, taxes, government spending, immigration and regulation, and added that the “net effect” of those changes is what will matter for the economy and the Fed’s interest rate policies.

“While there have been recent developments in some of these areas, especially trade policy, uncertainty around the changes and their likely effects remains high,” Powell said. “As we parse the incoming information, we are focused on separating the signal from the noise as the outlook evolves. We do not need to be in a hurry and are well positioned to wait for greater clarity.”

Meanwhile, the Bank of Japan is expected to keep its policy rate at 0.5%, while the Swiss National Bank is anticipated to cut interest rates by 25 basis points to 0.25%. The People’s Bank of China is likely to maintain its key lending rates — the one-year and five-year loan prime rates — at 3.1% and 3.6%, respectively.

The Bank of England will announce its decision on interest rates this Thursday at noon.

Download the Yahoo Finance app, available for Apple and Android.

---
SENTIMENT: 
SCORE: 0.0
