# Why investors should resist trying to 'time the market'

Source: https://finance.yahoo.com/video/why-investors-resist-trying-time-202000991.html
Timestamp: 1741810800 (2025-03-12T20:20:00)

SUMMARY: The importance of diversifying investments across various sectors, including information technology (IT), industrials, and healthcare, is important in today's volatile market environment (^DJI, ^IXIC, ^GSPC). Hennion & Walsh CIO Kevin Mahn joins Market Domination hosts Julie Hyman and Josh Lipton to highlight the need to stay invested and avoid market timing, pointing out that significant returns often come from just a few key trading days. To watch more expert insights and analysis on the lates...

The importance of diversifying investments across various sectors, including information technology (IT), industrials, and healthcare, is important in today's volatile market environment (^DJI, ^IXIC, ^GSPC).

Hennion & Walsh CIO Kevin Mahn joins Market Domination hosts Julie Hyman and Josh Lipton to highlight the need to stay invested and avoid market timing, pointing out that significant returns often come from just a few key trading days.

To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action, check out more Market Domination here.

So now that things are all going down on the days that they're going down, is there still, do you still want to load up in some of those diversified areas you're talking about? Is this the time, is this, you know, do you go into value? Do you go into health care, etc.?

Yes. I think all those areas are an important part of any diversified portfolio. And I would suggest that we do want the rally to broaden, but not necessarily exclude the most important components of the stock market and the most widely held sector to most retail investors, that being information technology. But I still wouldn't count out the Nvidias of the world. I wouldn't count out Microsoft and the Mag 7. They're going to continue to lead this market forward, and I believe lead this bull market for the next couple of years. But they were overvalued. So they were due for a potential pullback and correction, perhaps creating even more attractive investment opportunities in those particular names. But again, look to diversify your portfolio into other geographies and other styles, in other sectors. I think if you look in industrials, aerospace and defense, utilities from the AI perspective, and even other areas of information technology that benefit from the AI revolution, opportunities are there, and there will be more growth ahead once we get through this period of transition and this period of volatility.

There might be some folks, Kevin, who are watching this right, right now though, and they're hesitant Yeah. to slam a buy button on anything because of the degree of uncertainty coming out of Washington. Because the Trump administration says, hey, you know, they'll give you dates to circle on your calendar. They'll say April 2nd, reciprocal tariffs, right? Um, and then after that fight's over, then we can fight over, we can fight over taxes after that. There's just so much uncertainty. I'm sure a lot of people just feel like, you know what, I'm going to sit on the sidelines until I just get more clarity.

Yeah. Yeah, the only thing certain right now is that there's going to be more uncertainty. But that level of uncertainty and these levels of volatility do create opportunity. And I would warn your viewers to be very resistant to the temptation to try and time the market because when this market does bottom, the bounce back will likely be significant. History tells us that trying to time the market is an exercise in futility. I always go back to this one study done by a University of Michigan professor that looked at 31 consecutive years of stock market performance and found that 95% of the stock market returns come on just 1% of the trading days. Wow. Now, none of us know when those 1% of the trading days are going to be, but if you're not in the market on those days, you're likely to miss out on the most significant returns the market has to offer. So stay invested, stay true to your risk tolerance, and keep a longer term perspective where appropriate.

---
SENTIMENT: neutral
SCORE: 0.1